docs/pages/enroll-resources/machine-id/troubleshooting.mdx, before:

---
title: Machine ID Troubleshooting Guide
description: Troubleshooting common issues with Machine ID
---

This page provides resolution steps for issues that you may come across when
setting up Machine ID.

## A bot failed to renew a certificate due to a "generation mismatch"

### Symptoms

The bot will log an error like this:

```text
ERROR: renewable cert generation mismatch: stored=3, presented=2
```

Subsequent connection attempts by the bot may see errors like the following:
```text
ERROR: failed direct dial to auth server: auth API: access denied [00]
"\tauth API: access denied [00], failed dial to auth server through reverse tunnel: Get \"https://teleport.cluster.local/v2/configuration/name\": Get \"https://example.com:3025/webapi/find\": x509: cannot validate certificate for example.com because it doesn't contain any IP SANs"
"\tGet \"https://teleport.cluster.local/v2/configuration/name\": Get \"https://example.com:3025/webapi/find\": x509: cannot validate certificate for example.com because it doesn't contain any IP SANs"
```

In particular, note the message `auth API: access denied`.

In self-hosted Teleport deployments, the Teleport Auth Service will also provide
some additional context:

```text
[AUTH]      WARN lock targeting User:"bot-example" is in force: The bot user "bot-example" has been locked due to a certificate generation mismatch, possibly indicating a stolen certificate. auth/apiserver.go:224
```

### Explanation

<Notice type="note">
This applies only to bots using the `token` join method, which makes use of
one-time use shared secrets. Provider-specific join methods, such as GitHub,
AWS IAM, etc will not be locked in this fashion unless another instance of the
bot uses `token` joining.
</Notice>

Machine ID (with token-based joining) uses a certificate generation counter to
detect potentially stolen renewable certificates. Each time a bot fetches a new
renewable certificate, the Auth Service increments the counter, stores it on the
backend, and embeds a copy of the counter in the certificate.

If the counter embedded in your bot certificate doesn't match the counter
stored in Teleport's Auth Server, the renewal will fail and the bot user will
be automatically [locked](../../admin-guides/access-controls/guides/locking.mdx).

Renewable certificates are exclusively stored in the bot's internal data
directory, by default `/var/lib/teleport/bot`. It's possible to trigger this by
accident if multiple bots are started using the same internal data directory, or
if this internal data is otherwise being shared between multiple `tbot`
processes.

Additionally, if a bot fails to save its freshly renewed certificates (for
example, due to a filesystem error) and crashes, it will attempt a renewal
with old certificates and trigger a lock.

### Resolution

Before unlocking the bot, try to determine if either of the two scenarios
described above apply. If the certificates were stolen, there may be
underlying security concerns that need to be addressed.

Otherwise, first ensure only one `tbot` process is using the internal data
directory. Multiple bots can be run on a single system, but separate data
directories must be configured for each.

Additionally, ensure the internal data is not being shared with or copied to any
other nodes, for example via a shared NFS volume. If you'd like to share
certificates between nodes, only copy or share content from destination
directories (usually `/opt/machine-id`) rather than the internal data directory
(by default, `/var/lib/teleport/bot`).

Once you have addressed the underlying cause, follow these steps to reset a
locked bot:
 1. Remove the lock on the bot's user
 1. Reset the bot's generation counter by creating a new bot instance

To remove the lock, first find and remove the lock targeting the bot user. For
this example, we'll assume the bot is named `example`, which will have an
associated Teleport user named `bot-example`:

```code
$ tctl get locks
kind: lock
metadata:
  id: 1658359514703080513
  name: 5cee949f-5203-4f3b-9805-dac35d798a16
spec:
  message: The bot user "bot-example" has been locked due to a certificate generation
    mismatch, possibly indicating a stolen certificate.
  target:
    user: bot-example
version: v2

$ tctl rm lock/5cee949f-5203-4f3b-9805-dac35d798a16
```

Next, use `tctl bots instances add` to generate a new join token for the
preexisting bot `example`:
```code
$ tctl bots instances add example
```

Finally, reconfigure the local `tbot` instance with the new token and restart
it. It will detect the new token and automatically reset its internal data
directory. The bot will be issued a new bot instance UUID once connected, and
the generation counter will be reset.

## `tbot` shows a "bad certificate error" at startup

### Symptoms

Restarting a `tbot` process outputs a log like the following:

```text
INFO [TBOT]      Successfully loaded bot identity, valid: after=2022-07-21T21:49:26Z, before=2022-07-21T22:50:26Z, duration=1h1m0s | kind=tls, renewable=true, disallow-reissue=false, roles=[bot-test], principals=[-teleport-internal-join], generation=2 tbot/tbot.go:281
ERRO [TBOT]      Identity has expired. The renewal is likely to fail. (expires: 2022-07-21T22:50:26Z, current time: 2022-07-25T20:18:33Z) tbot/tbot.go:415
WARN [TBOT]      Note: onboarding config ignored as identity was loaded from persistent storage tbot/tbot.go:288
ERRO [TBOT]      Failed to resolve tunnel address Get "https://auth.example.com:3025/webapi/find": x509: cannot validate certificate for auth.example.com because it doesn't contain any IP SANs reversetunnel/transport.go:90
ERRO [TBOT]      Failed to resolve tunnel address Get "https://auth.example.com:3025/webapi/find": x509: cannot validate certificate for auth.example.com because it doesn't contain any IP SANs reversetunnel/transport.go:90
ERROR: failed direct dial to auth server: Get "https://teleport.cluster.local/v2/configuration/name": remote error: tls: bad certificate
"\tGet \"https://teleport.cluster.local/v2/configuration/name\": remote error: tls: bad certificate, failed dial to auth server through reverse tunnel: Get \"https://teleport.cluster.local/v2/configuration/name\": Get \"https://auth.example.com:3025/webapi/find\": x509: cannot validate certificate for auth.example.com because it doesn't contain any IP SANs"
"\tGet \"https://teleport.cluster.local/v2/configuration/name\": Get \"https://auth.example.com:3025/webapi/find\": x509: cannot validate certificate for auth.example.com because it doesn't contain any IP SANs"
```

In particular, note the log line: "Identity has expired. The renewal is likely to
fail."

### Explanation

Token-joined bots are unable to reauthenticate to the Teleport Auth Service once
their certificates have expired. Tokens in token-based joining (as opposed to
AWS IAM and other join methods) can only be used once, so when the bot's
internal certificates expire, it will not be able to connect.

When a bot's identity expires, certain parameters associated with the bot on the
Auth Service must be reset and a new joining token must be issued. The simplest
way to accomplish this is by removing and recreating the bot, which purges all
server-side data and issues a new joining token.

### Resolution

Use `tctl bots instances add` to create a new one-time use token for the bot:

```code
$ tctl bots instances add example
```

Copy the resulting join token into the existing bot config—either the
`--token` CLI flag or the `onboarding.token` parameter in `tbot.yaml`—and
restart the bot. It will detect the new token and rejoin the cluster as normal.

## SSH connections fail with `ssh: handshake failed: ssh: unable to authenticate`

### Symptoms

When attempting to connect to a node via SSH, connections fail with an error
like the following:

```code
$ ssh -F /opt/machine-id/ssh_config bob@node.example.com
ERROR: ssh: handshake failed: ssh: unable to authenticate, attempted methods [none publickey], no supported methods remain

ERROR: unable to execute tsh
executing `tsh proxy`
exit status 1

kex_exchange_identification: Connection closed by remote host
Connection closed by UNKNOWN port 65535
```

In particular, note the `ssh: unable to authenticate` message.

### Explanation

This can occur when attempting to log into the node as a user not listed as a
principal on the SSH certificate.

You can verify this by viewing the `tbot` logs and looking for the log message
when impersonated certificates for the matching outputs were renewed.

In the following example, the only principal listed for the identity in
`/opt/machine-id` is `alice` (via the `access` role):
```text
INFO [TBOT]      Successfully renewed impersonated certificates for directory /opt/machine-id, valid: after=2022-07-21T21:49:26Z, before=2022-07-21T22:50:26Z, duration=1h1m0s | kind=tls, renewable=false, disallow-reissue=true, roles=[access], principals=[alice -teleport-internal-join], generation=0 tbot/renew.go:630
```

However, the SSH command attempted to log in as `bob`.

### Resolution

Ensure the bot identity is allowed to log in as the requested user by taking any
of the following actions:

 - Changing the SSH command to log in as an allowed user
 - Modifying the `access` role to allow the `alice` principal
 - Adding a role granting login via the `bob` principal

Note that if roles are added or modified, the certificates will need to be
renewed for the changes to take effect. The bot will renew certificates on its
own after the renewal interval (by default, 20 minutes), but you can trigger a
renewal immediately by either restarting the `tbot` process or sending it a
reload signal:

```code
## If using systemd, you can restart the process:
$ systemctl restart machine-id
## Alternatively, you can send `tbot` a reload signal directly:
$ pkill -sigusr1 tbot
```

## Database requests fail with `database "example" not found`, but the database exists

### Symptoms

When requesting [Database Access](../database-access/database-access.mdx)
certificates, the certificate request fails with an error like the following:

```text
ERROR: Failed to generate impersonated certs for directory /opt/machine-id: database "example" not found
database "example" not found
```

However, the database exists and can be seen by regular users via `tsh`:

```code
$ tsh db ls
Name       Description Allowed Users Labels  Connect
---------- ----------- ------------- ------- -------
example                [alice]       env=dev
```

### Explanation

Unlike regular Teleport users, Machine ID bot users are granted only minimal
Teleport [RBAC permissions](../../reference/access-controls/roles.mdx) and are not
allowed to view or list databases by default unless granted permission via one
or more roles.

### Resolution

Per the [Machine ID Database Access Guide](./access-guides/databases.mdx), ensure at
least one role providing database permissions has been granted to the
output listed in the error.

For example, note the `rules` section in the following example role:
```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: machine-id-db
spec:
  allow:
    db_labels:
      '*': '*'
    db_names: [example]
    db_users: [alice]
    rules:
      - resources: [db_server, db]
        verbs: [read, list]
```

Ensure the bot has a role that grants it at least these RBAC rules. If desired
you can examine bot roles with `tctl` to ensure the necessary `rules` have been
granted:

```code
$ tctl get role/machine-id-db
```

If the role is missing database permissions, it can be modified in your text
editor:

```code
$ tctl edit role/machine-id-db
```

Edit the role, then save and close the file to apply your changes.

(!docs/pages/includes/create-role-using-web.mdx!)

<Notice type="note">
By default, outputs (like `/opt/machine-id`) are granted all roles provided
to the bot via `tctl bots add --roles=...`, but it's possible to grant only a
subset of these roles using the `roles: ...` parameter in `tbot.yaml`.

If permissions are unexpectedly missing, ensure `tbot.yaml` requests your
database role, either by relying on default behavior or adding the role to the
`roles: ...` list.
</Notice>

Once fixed, restart or reload the `tbot` clients for the updated role to take
effect.

If the bot was not granted the role initially, the simplest solution is to
delete and recreate the bot, being sure to include the role in the `--roles=...`
flag:

```code
$ tctl bots rm example
$ tctl bots add example --roles=foo,bar,machine-id-db
```

## Destination kubernetes_secret: `identity-output` must be a directory in exec plugin mode

By default, when outputting a Kubernetes identity, `tbot` outputs make use of a Kubernetes exec
plugin to always provide the latest version of the credentials.

When outputting a Kubernetes identity to a Kubernetes secret, however, it is important to disable
the use of the `exec` plugin by adding `disable_exec_plugin: true` to the output. This means that
a static `kubeconfig` file with embedded short-lived credentials is written instead:

```yaml
outputs:
  - type: kubernetes
    # Specify the name of the Kubernetes cluster you wish the credentials to
    # grant access to.
    kubernetes_cluster: example-k8s-cluster
    # Required when outputting a Kubernetes identity to a Kubernetes secret.
    disable_exec_plugin: true
    destination:
      type: kubernetes_secret
      # For this guide, identity-output is used as the secret name.
      # You may wish to customize this. Multiple outputs cannot share the same
      # destination.
      name: identity-output
```

Failure to add the `disable_exec_plugin` flag will result in a warning being displayed:
`Destination kubernetes_secret: identity-output must be a directory in exec plugin mode`.

## Configuring `tbot` for split DNS proxies

When you have deployed your Proxy Service in such a way that it is
accessible via two different DNS names, e.g an internal and external address,
you may find that a `tbot` that is configured to use one of these addresses may
attempt to use the other address and that this may cause connections to fail.

This is because `tbot` queries an auto-configuration endpoint exposed by the
Proxy Service to determine the canonical address to use when connecting.

To fix this, set a variable of `TBOT_USE_PROXY_ADDR=yes` in the environment of the
`tbot` process. This configures `tbot` to prefer using the address that you have
explicitly provided. This only functions correctly in cases where TLS
routing/multiplexing is enabled for the Teleport cluster.

Commit message:

[v17] Address 67 Vale warnings (#52743)
Backports #52511

- Fix "Auth Service" variations.
- Fix some AWS product naming violations.
- Ignore some false positives.
- Fix capitalization warnings.
- Address warnings re: outdated product names.

Some of the warning categories above include auto-generated pages. This
change does not touch the generators in order to simplify things.

docs/pages/enroll-resources/machine-id/troubleshooting.mdx, after:

---
title: Machine ID Troubleshooting Guide
description: Troubleshooting common issues with Machine ID
---

This page provides resolution steps for issues that you may come across when
setting up Machine ID.

## A bot failed to renew a certificate due to a "generation mismatch"

### Symptoms

The bot will log an error like this:

```text
ERROR: renewable cert generation mismatch: stored=3, presented=2
```

Subsequent connection attempts by the bot may see errors like the following:
```text
ERROR: failed direct dial to auth server: auth API: access denied [00]
"\tauth API: access denied [00], failed dial to auth server through reverse tunnel: Get \"https://teleport.cluster.local/v2/configuration/name\": Get \"https://example.com:3025/webapi/find\": x509: cannot validate certificate for example.com because it doesn't contain any IP SANs"
"\tGet \"https://teleport.cluster.local/v2/configuration/name\": Get \"https://example.com:3025/webapi/find\": x509: cannot validate certificate for example.com because it doesn't contain any IP SANs"
```

In particular, note the message `auth API: access denied`.

In self-hosted Teleport deployments, the Teleport Auth Service will also provide
some additional context:

```text
[AUTH]      WARN lock targeting User:"bot-example" is in force: The bot user "bot-example" has been locked due to a certificate generation mismatch, possibly indicating a stolen certificate. auth/apiserver.go:224
```

### Explanation

<Notice type="note">
This applies only to bots using the `token` join method, which makes use of
one-time use shared secrets. Provider-specific join methods, such as GitHub,
AWS IAM, etc will not be locked in this fashion unless another instance of the
bot uses `token` joining.
</Notice>

Machine ID (with token-based joining) uses a certificate generation counter to
detect potentially stolen renewable certificates. Each time a bot fetches a new
renewable certificate, the Auth Service increments the counter, stores it on the
backend, and embeds a copy of the counter in the certificate.

If the counter embedded in your bot certificate doesn't match the counter
stored in Teleport's Auth Service, the renewal will fail and the bot user will
be automatically [locked](../../admin-guides/access-controls/guides/locking.mdx).

Renewable certificates are exclusively stored in the bot's internal data
directory, by default `/var/lib/teleport/bot`. It's possible to trigger this by
accident if multiple bots are started using the same internal data directory, or
if this internal data is otherwise being shared between multiple `tbot`
processes.

Additionally, if a bot fails to save its freshly renewed certificates (for
example, due to a filesystem error) and crashes, it will attempt a renewal
with old certificates and trigger a lock.

### Resolution

Before unlocking the bot, try to determine if either of the two scenarios
described above apply. If the certificates were stolen, there may be
underlying security concerns that need to be addressed.

Otherwise, first ensure only one `tbot` process is using the internal data
directory. Multiple bots can be run on a single system, but separate data
directories must be configured for each.

Additionally, ensure the internal data is not being shared with or copied to any
other nodes, for example via a shared NFS volume. If you'd like to share
certificates between nodes, only copy or share content from destination
directories (usually `/opt/machine-id`) rather than the internal data directory
(by default, `/var/lib/teleport/bot`).

Once you have addressed the underlying cause, follow these steps to reset a
locked bot:
 1. Remove the lock on the bot's user
 1. Reset the bot's generation counter by creating a new bot instance

To remove the lock, first find and remove the lock targeting the bot user. For
this example, we'll assume the bot is named `example`, which will have an
associated Teleport user named `bot-example`:

```code
$ tctl get locks
kind: lock
metadata:
  id: 1658359514703080513
  name: 5cee949f-5203-4f3b-9805-dac35d798a16
spec:
  message: The bot user "bot-example" has been locked due to a certificate generation
    mismatch, possibly indicating a stolen certificate.
  target:
    user: bot-example
version: v2

$ tctl rm lock/5cee949f-5203-4f3b-9805-dac35d798a16
```

Next, use `tctl bots instances add` to generate a new join token for the
preexisting bot `example`:
```code
$ tctl bots instances add example
```

Finally, reconfigure the local `tbot` instance with the new token and restart
it. It will detect the new token and automatically reset its internal data
directory. The bot will be issued a new bot instance UUID once connected, and
the generation counter will be reset.

## `tbot` shows a "bad certificate error" at startup

### Symptoms

Restarting a `tbot` process outputs a log like the following:

```text
INFO [TBOT]      Successfully loaded bot identity, valid: after=2022-07-21T21:49:26Z, before=2022-07-21T22:50:26Z, duration=1h1m0s | kind=tls, renewable=true, disallow-reissue=false, roles=[bot-test], principals=[-teleport-internal-join], generation=2 tbot/tbot.go:281
ERRO [TBOT]      Identity has expired. The renewal is likely to fail. (expires: 2022-07-21T22:50:26Z, current time: 2022-07-25T20:18:33Z) tbot/tbot.go:415
WARN [TBOT]      Note: onboarding config ignored as identity was loaded from persistent storage tbot/tbot.go:288
ERRO [TBOT]      Failed to resolve tunnel address Get "https://auth.example.com:3025/webapi/find": x509: cannot validate certificate for auth.example.com because it doesn't contain any IP SANs reversetunnel/transport.go:90
ERRO [TBOT]      Failed to resolve tunnel address Get "https://auth.example.com:3025/webapi/find": x509: cannot validate certificate for auth.example.com because it doesn't contain any IP SANs reversetunnel/transport.go:90
ERROR: failed direct dial to auth server: Get "https://teleport.cluster.local/v2/configuration/name": remote error: tls: bad certificate
"\tGet \"https://teleport.cluster.local/v2/configuration/name\": remote error: tls: bad certificate, failed dial to auth server through reverse tunnel: Get \"https://teleport.cluster.local/v2/configuration/name\": Get \"https://auth.example.com:3025/webapi/find\": x509: cannot validate certificate for auth.example.com because it doesn't contain any IP SANs"
"\tGet \"https://teleport.cluster.local/v2/configuration/name\": Get \"https://auth.example.com:3025/webapi/find\": x509: cannot validate certificate for auth.example.com because it doesn't contain any IP SANs"
```

In particular, note the log line: "Identity has expired. The renewal is likely to
fail."

### Explanation

Token-joined bots are unable to reauthenticate to the Teleport Auth Service once
their certificates have expired. Tokens in token-based joining (as opposed to
AWS IAM and other join methods) can only be used once, so when the bot's
internal certificates expire, it will not be able to connect.

When a bot's identity expires, certain parameters associated with the bot on the
Auth Service must be reset and a new joining token must be issued. The simplest
way to accomplish this is by removing and recreating the bot, which purges all
server-side data and issues a new joining token.

### Resolution

Use `tctl bots instances add` to create a new one-time use token for the bot:

```code
$ tctl bots instances add example
```

Copy the resulting join token into the existing bot config—either the
`--token` CLI flag or the `onboarding.token` parameter in `tbot.yaml`—and
restart the bot. It will detect the new token and rejoin the cluster as normal.

## SSH connections fail with `ssh: handshake failed: ssh: unable to authenticate`

### Symptoms

When attempting to connect to a node via SSH, connections fail with an error
like the following:

```code
$ ssh -F /opt/machine-id/ssh_config bob@node.example.com
ERROR: ssh: handshake failed: ssh: unable to authenticate, attempted methods [none publickey], no supported methods remain

ERROR: unable to execute tsh
executing `tsh proxy`
exit status 1

kex_exchange_identification: Connection closed by remote host
Connection closed by UNKNOWN port 65535
```

In particular, note the `ssh: unable to authenticate` message.

### Explanation

This can occur when attempting to log into the node as a user not listed as a
principal on the SSH certificate.

You can verify this by viewing the `tbot` logs and looking for the log message
when impersonated certificates for the matching outputs were renewed.

In the following example, the only principal listed for the identity in
`/opt/machine-id` is `alice` (via the `access` role):
```text
INFO [TBOT]      Successfully renewed impersonated certificates for directory /opt/machine-id, valid: after=2022-07-21T21:49:26Z, before=2022-07-21T22:50:26Z, duration=1h1m0s | kind=tls, renewable=false, disallow-reissue=true, roles=[access], principals=[alice -teleport-internal-join], generation=0 tbot/renew.go:630
```

However, the SSH command attempted to log in as `bob`.

### Resolution

Ensure the bot identity is allowed to log in as the requested user by taking any
of the following actions:

 - Changing the SSH command to log in as an allowed user
 - Modifying the `access` role to allow the `alice` principal
 - Adding a role granting login via the `bob` principal

Note that if roles are added or modified, the certificates will need to be
renewed for the changes to take effect. The bot will renew certificates on its
own after the renewal interval (by default, 20 minutes), but you can trigger a
renewal immediately by either restarting the `tbot` process or sending it a
reload signal:

```code
## If using systemd, you can restart the process:
$ systemctl restart machine-id
## Alternatively, you can send `tbot` a reload signal directly:
$ pkill -sigusr1 tbot
```

## Database requests fail with `database "example" not found`, but the database exists

### Symptoms

When requesting certificates for Teleport-protected
[databases](../database-access/database-access.mdx), the certificate request
fails with an error like the following:

```text
ERROR: Failed to generate impersonated certs for directory /opt/machine-id: database "example" not found
database "example" not found
```

However, the database exists and can be seen by regular users via `tsh`:

```code
$ tsh db ls
Name       Description Allowed Users Labels  Connect
---------- ----------- ------------- ------- -------
example                [alice]       env=dev
```

### Explanation

Unlike regular Teleport users, Machine ID bot users are granted only minimal
Teleport [RBAC permissions](../../reference/access-controls/roles.mdx) and are not
allowed to view or list databases by default unless granted permission via one
or more roles.

### Resolution

{/* vale messaging.protocol-products = NO */}
Per the [Machine ID Database Access Guide](./access-guides/databases.mdx), ensure at
least one role providing database permissions has been granted to the
output listed in the error.
{/* vale messaging.protocol-products = YES */}

For example, note the `rules` section in the following example role:
```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: machine-id-db
spec:
  allow:
    db_labels:
      '*': '*'
    db_names: [example]
    db_users: [alice]
    rules:
      - resources: [db_server, db]
        verbs: [read, list]
```

Ensure the bot has a role that grants it at least these RBAC rules. If desired
you can examine bot roles with `tctl` to ensure the necessary `rules` have been
granted:

```code
$ tctl get role/machine-id-db
```

If the role is missing database permissions, it can be modified in your text
editor:

```code
$ tctl edit role/machine-id-db
```

Edit the role, then save and close the file to apply your changes.

(!docs/pages/includes/create-role-using-web.mdx!)

<Notice type="note">
By default, outputs (like `/opt/machine-id`) are granted all roles provided
to the bot via `tctl bots add --roles=...`, but it's possible to grant only a
subset of these roles using the `roles: ...` parameter in `tbot.yaml`.

If permissions are unexpectedly missing, ensure `tbot.yaml` requests your
database role, either by relying on default behavior or adding the role to the
`roles: ...` list.
</Notice>

Once fixed, restart or reload the `tbot` clients for the updated role to take
effect.

If the bot was not granted the role initially, the simplest solution is to
delete and recreate the bot, being sure to include the role in the `--roles=...`
flag:

```code
$ tctl bots rm example
$ tctl bots add example --roles=foo,bar,machine-id-db
```

## Destination kubernetes_secret: `identity-output` must be a directory in exec plugin mode

By default, when outputting a Kubernetes identity, `tbot` outputs make use of a Kubernetes exec
plugin to always provide the latest version of the credentials.

When outputting a Kubernetes identity to a Kubernetes secret, however, it is important to disable
the use of the `exec` plugin by adding `disable_exec_plugin: true` to the output. This means that
a static `kubeconfig` file with embedded short-lived credentials is written instead:

```yaml
outputs:
  - type: kubernetes
    # Specify the name of the Kubernetes cluster you wish the credentials to
    # grant access to.
    kubernetes_cluster: example-k8s-cluster
    # Required when outputting a Kubernetes identity to a Kubernetes secret.
    disable_exec_plugin: true
    destination:
      type: kubernetes_secret
      # For this guide, identity-output is used as the secret name.
      # You may wish to customize this. Multiple outputs cannot share the same
      # destination.
      name: identity-output
```

Failure to add the `disable_exec_plugin` flag will result in a warning being displayed:
`Destination kubernetes_secret: identity-output must be a directory in exec plugin mode`.

## Configuring `tbot` for split DNS proxies

When you have deployed your Proxy Service in such a way that it is
accessible via two different DNS names, e.g an internal and external address,
you may find that a `tbot` that is configured to use one of these addresses may
attempt to use the other address and that this may cause connections to fail.

This is because `tbot` queries an auto-configuration endpoint exposed by the
Proxy Service to determine the canonical address to use when connecting.

To fix this, set a variable of `TBOT_USE_PROXY_ADDR=yes` in the environment of the
`tbot` process. This configures `tbot` to prefer using the address that you have
explicitly provided. This only functions correctly in cases where TLS
routing/multiplexing is enabled for the Teleport cluster.
