docs/pages/access-controls/sso/azuread.mdx, before:

---
title: SSH Authentication with Active Directory (AD) on Azure
description: How to configure SSH access with Active Directory (AD) on Azure using Teleport
h1: SSH Authentication with Azure Active Directory (AD)
---

This guide will cover how to configure Microsoft Azure Active Directory to issue
SSH credentials to specific groups of users with a SAML Authentication Connector. When used in combination with role-based access control (RBAC), it allows SSH administrators to define policies like:

- Only members of the "DBA" Azure AD group can SSH into machines running PostgreSQL.
- Developers must never SSH into production servers.

The following steps configure an example SAML authentication connector matching Azure AD groups with security roles.  You can choose to configure other options.

## Prerequisites

Before you get started you’ll need:

- An Azure AD admin account with access to creating non-gallery applications (P2 License)
- To register one or more users in the directory
- To create at least two security groups in Azure AD and assign one or more users to each group
- Teleport role with access to maintaining `saml` resources.  This is available in the default `editor` role.

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/enterprise/samlauthentication.mdx!)

## Configure Azure AD

1. Select **Azure AD -> Enterprise Applications**

   ![Select Enterprise Applications From Manage](../../../img/azuread/azuread-1-home.png)

2. Select **New application**

   ![Select New Applications From Manage](../../../img/azuread/azuread-2-newapp.png)

3. Select **Create your own application**, enter the application name (e.g Teleport),
   and select **Integrate any other application you don't find in the gallery (Non-gallery)**.

   ![Select Non-gallery application](../../../img/azuread/azuread-3-createnongalleryapp.png)

4. Select **Properties** under **Manage** and set **User assignment required?** to **No**

![Turn off user assignment](../../../img/azuread/azuread-4-turnoffuserassign.png)

5. Select **Single sign-on** under **Manage** and choose **SAML**

   ![Select SAML](../../../img/azuread/azuread-5-selectsaml.png)

6. Edit the **Basic SAML Configuration**

   ![Edit Basic SAML Configuration](../../../img/azuread/azuread-6-editbasicsaml.png)

7. For **Entity ID** and **Reply URL**, enter the same proxy URL.

   For self-hosted deployments, the URL will be similar to `https://teleport.example.com:3080/v1/webapi/saml/acs/connectorName`.

   For Teleport Cloud users, the URL will be similar to `https://mytenant.teleport.sh`.

   ![Put in Entity ID and Reply URL](../../../img/azuread/azuread-7-entityandreplyurl.png)

8. Edit **User Attributes & Claims**

   - Edit the claim name.
   - Change the name identifier format to **Default**. Make sure the source attribute is `user.userprincipalname`.

   ![Confirm Name Identifier](../../../img/azuread/azuread-8a-nameidentifier.png)

   - Add a group claim to make user security groups available to the connector

   ![Put in Security group claim](../../../img/azuread/azuread-8b-groupclaim.png)

   - Add a claim that transforms an Azure AD username in order to pass it to Teleport.

   ![Add a transformed username](../../../img/azuread/azuread-8c-usernameclaim.png)

9. In **SAML Signing Certificate**, click the link to download the **Federation Metadata XML**.

   ![Download Federation Metadata XML](../../../img/azuread/azuread-9-fedmeatadataxml.png)

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Important"
>
  This is an important document.  The Federation Metadata XML file sets the SSO location and other important values. Transmit the Federation Metadata XML file securely so it is not malformed.  Using the `entity_descriptor_url` setting allows for loading from the source.
</Admonition>

## Create a SAML Connector

Now, create a SAML connector resource. Write the following to `azure-connector.yaml`:

```yaml
kind: saml
version: v2
metadata:
  # the name of the connector
  name: azure-saml
spec:
  display: "Microsoft"

  # enables/disables idp-initiated saml login
  allow_idp_initiated: false

  # acs is the Assertion Consumer Service URL. This should be the address of
  # the Teleport proxy that your identity provider will communicate with.
  # The last segment of the URL must be identical to the connector metadata name.
  acs: https://teleport.example.com:3080/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  attributes_to_roles:
    - {name: "http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/groups", value: "930210...", roles: ["editor"]}
    - {name: "http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/groups", value: "93b110...", roles: ["dev"]}
  # Populate entity_descriptor with the federator data xml or set entity_descriptor_url to automatically load from the SSO
  entity_descriptor: |
    <federationmedata.xml contents>
```

(!docs/pages/includes/sso/idp-initiated.mdx!)

Replace the `acs` field with your Teleport address, update the group IDs in the `attributes_to_roles` field with the actual Azure AD group ID values, and insert the downloaded Federation Metadata XML into the `entity_descriptor` field.

Create the connector using `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create azure-connector.yaml
```

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Automatic signing key pair"
>
  Teleport will generate a signing key pair and update the SAML connector with the `signing_key_pair`
  property.

  ![Sample Connector Transform](../../../img/azuread/azuread-12-sampleconnector.png)

  Alternatively, you can generate your own keypair when creating a connector using `openssl`:

  ```code
  $ openssl req  -nodes -new -x509  -keyout server.key -out server.cer
  ```
</Admonition>

## Create a new Teleport role

Create a Teleport role resource that will use external username data from the Azure AD connector to determine which Linux logins to allow on a host.

Users with the following `dev` role are only allowed to log in to nodes with the `access: relaxed` Teleport label. They can log in as either `ubuntu` or a username that
arrives via the Azure AD connector. Users with this role cannot obtain admin access to Teleport.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: dev
spec:
  options:
    max_session_ttl: 24h
  allow:
    logins: [ "{{external.username}}", ubuntu ]
    node_labels:
      access: relaxed
```

Replace `ubuntu` with the Linux login available on your servers.

```code
$ tctl create dev.yaml
```

## Testing

![Login with Microsoft](../../../img/azuread/azure-11-loginwithmsft.png)

The CLI is the same as before:
```code
$ tsh --proxy=proxy.example.com login
```

This command will print the SSO login URL and will try to open it
automatically in a browser.

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Tip"
>
  Teleport can use multiple SAML connectors. In this case a connector name
  can be passed via `tsh login --auth=connector_name`
</Admonition>

## Token encryption

Azure AD's SAML token encryption encrypts the SAML assertions sent to Teleport during SSO redirect.

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Tip"
>
  This is Azure Active Directory Premium feature and requires a separate license.
  You can read more about it [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/howto-saml-token-encryption).
</Admonition>

### Set up Teleport token encryption

Start with generating a public/private key and a certificate. You will set up the public
certificate with Azure AD and the private key with Teleport.

```code
$ openssl req  -nodes -new -x509  -keyout server.key -out server.cer
```

If you are modifying the existing connector, write the YAML to a file first:

```code
$ tctl get saml --with-secrets > azure-out.yaml
```

You will notice that Teleport has generated a `signing_key_pair`. This key pair
is used to sign responses.

```yaml
kind: saml
metadata:
  name: azure-saml
spec:
  acs: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  attributes_to_roles:
  - name: http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/groups
    roles:
    - editor
    - access
    - auditor
    value: '*'
  audience: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  cert: ""
  display: Microsoft
  entity_descriptor: |
    <?xml ...
  entity_descriptor_url: ""
  issuer: https://sts.windows.net/your-id-here/
  service_provider_issuer: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  signing_key_pair:
    cert: |
      -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
      ...
      -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    private_key: |
      -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
      ...
      -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
  sso: https://login.microsoftonline.com/your-id-here/saml2
version: v2
```

Add `assertion_key_pair` using the data from `server.key` and `server.cer`.

```yaml
kind: saml
metadata:
  name: azure-saml
spec:
  acs: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  attributes_to_roles:
  - name: http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/groups
    roles:
    - editor
    - access
    - auditor
    value: '*'
  audience: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  cert: ""
  display: Microsoft
  entity_descriptor: |
    <?xml ...
  entity_descriptor_url: ""
  issuer: https://sts.windows.net/your-id-here/
  service_provider_issuer: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  signing_key_pair:
    cert: |
      -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
      ...
      -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    private_key: |
      -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
      ...
      -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
  sso: https://login.microsoftonline.com/your-id-here/saml2
version: v2
```

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Warning"
>
  Make sure to have the same indentation for all lines of the certificate and key, otherwise
  Teleport will not parse the YAML file.
</Admonition>

After your edits, the file will look like this:

```yaml
kind: saml
metadata:
  name: azure-saml
spec:
  acs: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  attributes_to_roles:
  - name: http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/groups
    roles:
    - editor
    - access
    - auditor
    value: '*'
  audience: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  cert: ""
  display: Microsoft
  entity_descriptor: |
    <?xml ...
  entity_descriptor_url: ""
  issuer: https://sts.windows.net/your-id-here/
  service_provider_issuer: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  assertion_key_pair:
    cert: |
      -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
      New CERT
      -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    private_key: |
      -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
      New private key
      -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
  signing_key_pair:
    cert: |
      -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
      ...
      -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    private_key: |
      -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
      ...
      -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
  sso: https://login.microsoftonline.com/your-id-here/saml2
version: v2
```

Update the connector:

```code
$ tctl create -f azure-out.yaml
```

### Activate token encryption

- Navigate to **Token Encryption**

![Navigate to token encryption](../../../img/azuread/azuread-token-encryption-0.png)

- Import certificate

![Import certificate](../../../img/azuread/azuread-token-encryption-1-import.png)

- Activate it

![Activate certificate](../../../img/azuread/azuread-token-encryption-2-activate.png)

If the SSO login with this connector is successful, the encryption works.

## Troubleshooting

(!docs/pages/includes/sso/loginerrortroubleshooting.mdx!)

### Failed to process SAML callback

If you encounter a "Failed to process SAML callback" error, take a look at the audit log.

```
Special characters are not allowed in resource names, please use name composed only from characters,
hyphens and dots: /web/users/ops_example.com#EXT#@opsexample.onmicrosoft.com/params
```

The error above is caused by a Name ID format that is not compatible with Teleport's naming conventions.

Change the Name ID format to use email instead:

![Change NameID format to use email](../../../img/azuread/azuread-nameid.png)

## Further reading
- [Teleport Configuration Resources Reference](../../reference/resources.mdx)

Commit message:

Minor clarifications in the Azure AD guide (#28802)
Closes #10678

- Clarify the URL to use for the Entity ID and Reply URL, using the
  `Var` component to streamline instructions for self-hosted and Cloud
  users.
- Clarify the optional nature of SAML token encryption

docs/pages/access-controls/sso/azuread.mdx, after:

---
title: SSH Authentication with Active Directory (AD) on Azure
description: How to configure SSH access with Active Directory (AD) on Azure using Teleport
h1: SSH Authentication with Azure Active Directory (AD)
---

This guide will cover how to configure Microsoft Azure Active Directory to issue
SSH credentials to specific groups of users with a SAML Authentication Connector. When used in combination with role-based access control (RBAC), it allows SSH administrators to define policies like:

- Only members of the "DBA" Azure AD group can SSH into machines running PostgreSQL.
- Developers must never SSH into production servers.

The following steps configure an example SAML authentication connector matching Azure AD groups with security roles.  You can choose to configure other options.

## Prerequisites

Before you get started you’ll need:

- An Azure AD admin account with access to creating non-gallery applications (P2 License)
- To register one or more users in the directory
- To create at least two security groups in Azure AD and assign one or more users to each group
- Teleport role with access to maintaining `saml` resources.  This is available in the default `editor` role.

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/enterprise/samlauthentication.mdx!)

## Configure Azure AD

1. Select **Azure AD -> Enterprise Applications**

   ![Select Enterprise Applications From Manage](../../../img/azuread/azuread-1-home.png)

2. Select **New application**

   ![Select New Applications From Manage](../../../img/azuread/azuread-2-newapp.png)

3. Select **Create your own application**, enter the application name (e.g Teleport),
   and select **Integrate any other application you don't find in the gallery (Non-gallery)**.

   ![Select Non-gallery application](../../../img/azuread/azuread-3-createnongalleryapp.png)

4. Select **Properties** under **Manage** and set **User assignment required?** to **No**

![Turn off user assignment](../../../img/azuread/azuread-4-turnoffuserassign.png)

5. Select **Single sign-on** under **Manage** and choose **SAML**

   ![Select SAML](../../../img/azuread/azuread-5-selectsaml.png)

6. Edit the **Basic SAML Configuration**

   ![Edit Basic SAML Configuration](../../../img/azuread/azuread-6-editbasicsaml.png)

7. For **Entity ID** and **Reply URL**, enter the following, assigning <Var
   name="mytenant.teleport.sh:443" /> to the host and HTTPS port of your
   Teleport Proxy Service (or Teleport Team/Enterprise Cloud tenant):

   ```var
   https://<Var name="mytenant.teleport.sh:443" />/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
   ```

   ![Put in Entity ID and Reply URL](../../../img/azuread/azuread-7-entityandreplyurl.png)

8. Edit **User Attributes & Claims**

   - Edit the claim name.
   - Change the name identifier format to **Default**. Make sure the source attribute is `user.userprincipalname`.

   ![Confirm Name Identifier](../../../img/azuread/azuread-8a-nameidentifier.png)

   - Add a group claim to make user security groups available to the connector

   ![Put in Security group claim](../../../img/azuread/azuread-8b-groupclaim.png)

   - Add a claim that transforms an Azure AD username in order to pass it to Teleport.

   ![Add a transformed username](../../../img/azuread/azuread-8c-usernameclaim.png)

9. In **SAML Signing Certificate**, click the link to download the **Federation Metadata XML**.

   ![Download Federation Metadata XML](../../../img/azuread/azuread-9-fedmeatadataxml.png)

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Important"
>
  This is an important document.  The Federation Metadata XML file sets the SSO location and other important values. Transmit the Federation Metadata XML file securely so it is not malformed.  Using the `entity_descriptor_url` setting allows for loading from the source.
</Admonition>

## Create a SAML Connector

Now, create a SAML connector resource. Write the following to `azure-connector.yaml`:

```yaml
kind: saml
version: v2
metadata:
  # the name of the connector
  name: azure-saml
spec:
  display: "Microsoft"

  # enables/disables idp-initiated saml login
  allow_idp_initiated: false

  # acs is the Assertion Consumer Service URL. This should be the address of
  # the Teleport proxy that your identity provider will communicate with.
  # The last segment of the URL must be identical to the connector metadata name.
  acs: https://teleport.example.com:3080/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  attributes_to_roles:
    - {name: "http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/groups", value: "930210...", roles: ["editor"]}
    - {name: "http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/groups", value: "93b110...", roles: ["dev"]}
  # Populate entity_descriptor with the federator data xml or set entity_descriptor_url to automatically load from the SSO
  entity_descriptor: |
    <federationmedata.xml contents>
```

(!docs/pages/includes/sso/idp-initiated.mdx!)

Replace the `acs` field with your Teleport address, update the group IDs in the `attributes_to_roles` field with the actual Azure AD group ID values, and insert the downloaded Federation Metadata XML into the `entity_descriptor` field.

Create the connector using `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create azure-connector.yaml
```

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Automatic signing key pair"
>
  Teleport will generate a signing key pair and update the SAML connector with the `signing_key_pair`
  property.

  ![Sample Connector Transform](../../../img/azuread/azuread-12-sampleconnector.png)

  Alternatively, you can generate your own keypair when creating a connector using `openssl`:

  ```code
  $ openssl req  -nodes -new -x509  -keyout server.key -out server.cer
  ```
</Admonition>

## Create a new Teleport role

Create a Teleport role resource that will use external username data from the Azure AD connector to determine which Linux logins to allow on a host.

Users with the following `dev` role are only allowed to log in to nodes with the `access: relaxed` Teleport label. They can log in as either `ubuntu` or a username that
arrives via the Azure AD connector. Users with this role cannot obtain admin access to Teleport.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: dev
spec:
  options:
    max_session_ttl: 24h
  allow:
    logins: [ "{{external.username}}", ubuntu ]
    node_labels:
      access: relaxed
```

Replace `ubuntu` with the Linux login available on your servers.

```code
$ tctl create dev.yaml
```

## Testing

![Login with Microsoft](../../../img/azuread/azure-11-loginwithmsft.png)

The CLI is the same as before:
```code
$ tsh --proxy=proxy.example.com login
```

This command will print the SSO login URL and will try to open it
automatically in a browser.

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Tip"
>
  Teleport can use multiple SAML connectors. In this case a connector name
  can be passed via `tsh login --auth=connector_name`
</Admonition>

## Token encryption (Optional)

Azure AD's SAML token encryption encrypts the SAML assertions sent to Teleport
during SSO redirect. 

Token encryption is an Azure Active Directory premium feature and requires a
separate license. Since traffic between Azure AD and the Teleport Proxy Service
already uses HTTPS, token encryption is optional. To determine whether you
should enable token encryption, read the Azure AD
[documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/howto-saml-token-encryption).

### Set up Teleport token encryption

Start with generating a public/private key and a certificate. You will set up the public
certificate with Azure AD and the private key with Teleport.

```code
$ openssl req  -nodes -new -x509  -keyout server.key -out server.cer
```

If you are modifying the existing connector, write the YAML to a file first:

```code
$ tctl get saml --with-secrets > azure-out.yaml
```

You will notice that Teleport has generated a `signing_key_pair`. This key pair
is used to sign responses.

```yaml
kind: saml
metadata:
  name: azure-saml
spec:
  acs: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  attributes_to_roles:
  - name: http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/groups
    roles:
    - editor
    - access
    - auditor
    value: '*'
  audience: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  cert: ""
  display: Microsoft
  entity_descriptor: |
    <?xml ...
  entity_descriptor_url: ""
  issuer: https://sts.windows.net/your-id-here/
  service_provider_issuer: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  signing_key_pair:
    cert: |
      -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
      ...
      -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    private_key: |
      -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
      ...
      -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
  sso: https://login.microsoftonline.com/your-id-here/saml2
version: v2
```

Add `assertion_key_pair` using the data from `server.key` and `server.cer`.

```yaml
kind: saml
metadata:
  name: azure-saml
spec:
  acs: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  attributes_to_roles:
  - name: http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/groups
    roles:
    - editor
    - access
    - auditor
    value: '*'
  audience: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  cert: ""
  display: Microsoft
  entity_descriptor: |
    <?xml ...
  entity_descriptor_url: ""
  issuer: https://sts.windows.net/your-id-here/
  service_provider_issuer: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  signing_key_pair:
    cert: |
      -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
      ...
      -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    private_key: |
      -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
      ...
      -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
  sso: https://login.microsoftonline.com/your-id-here/saml2
version: v2
```

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Warning"
>
  Make sure to have the same indentation for all lines of the certificate and key, otherwise
  Teleport will not parse the YAML file.
</Admonition>

After your edits, the file will look like this:

```yaml
kind: saml
metadata:
  name: azure-saml
spec:
  acs: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  attributes_to_roles:
  - name: http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/groups
    roles:
    - editor
    - access
    - auditor
    value: '*'
  audience: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  cert: ""
  display: Microsoft
  entity_descriptor: |
    <?xml ...
  entity_descriptor_url: ""
  issuer: https://sts.windows.net/your-id-here/
  service_provider_issuer: https://teleport.example.com/v1/webapi/saml/acs/azure-saml
  assertion_key_pair:
    cert: |
      -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
      New CERT
      -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    private_key: |
      -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
      New private key
      -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
  signing_key_pair:
    cert: |
      -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
      ...
      -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    private_key: |
      -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
      ...
      -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
  sso: https://login.microsoftonline.com/your-id-here/saml2
version: v2
```

Update the connector:

```code
$ tctl create -f azure-out.yaml
```

### Activate token encryption

- Navigate to **Token Encryption**

![Navigate to token encryption](../../../img/azuread/azuread-token-encryption-0.png)

- Import certificate

![Import certificate](../../../img/azuread/azuread-token-encryption-1-import.png)

- Activate it

![Activate certificate](../../../img/azuread/azuread-token-encryption-2-activate.png)

If the SSO login with this connector is successful, the encryption works.

## Troubleshooting

(!docs/pages/includes/sso/loginerrortroubleshooting.mdx!)

### Failed to process SAML callback

If you encounter a "Failed to process SAML callback" error, take a look at the audit log.

```
Special characters are not allowed in resource names, please use name composed only from characters,
hyphens and dots: /web/users/ops_example.com#EXT#@opsexample.onmicrosoft.com/params
```

The error above is caused by a Name ID format that is not compatible with Teleport's naming conventions.

Change the Name ID format to use email instead:

![Change NameID format to use email](../../../img/azuread/azuread-nameid.png)

## Further reading
- [Teleport Configuration Resources Reference](../../reference/resources.mdx)
