docs/pages/admin-guides/deploy-a-cluster/hsm.mdx, before:

---
title: HSM Support
description: How to configure Hardware Security Modules to manage your Teleport CA private keys
h1: Teleport HSM Support
---

This guide will show you how to set up the Teleport Auth Service to use a
hardware security module (HSM) to store and handle private keys.

## Prerequisites

- Teleport v(=teleport.version=) Enterprise (self-hosted).
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)
- An HSM reachable from your Teleport Auth Service.
- The PKCS#11 module for your HSM.

(!docs/pages/includes/enterprise/hsm-warning.mdx!)

While most PKCS#11 HSMs should be supported, the Teleport team tests with AWS
CloudHSM, YubiHSM2, and SoftHSM2.

## Step 1/5. Set up your HSM

You will need to set up your HSM and make sure that it is accessible from your
Teleport Auth Service. You should create a unique HSM user or token for Teleport
to use.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="AWS CloudHSM">
1. Create a CloudHSM cluster in the VPC where you will run your Teleport Auth
   Service.
   https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/create-cluster.html

1. Wait for the newly created cluster to enter the "Uninitialized" state.

1. Add an HSM to the new cluster, using the AWS Console or the AWS CLI,
   assigning <Var name="region"/> to your AWS region and <Var name="availability zone"/>
   to your availability zone:

   ```code
   $ aws --region <Var name="region"/> cloudhsmv2 create-hsm --cluster-id <Var name="cluster ID"/> --availability-zone <Var name="availability zone"/>
   {
       "Hsm": {
           "AvailabilityZone": "ca-central-1a",
           "ClusterId": "cluster-6uysmebmutd",
           "SubnetId": "subnet-0c535b67a117f7186",
           "HsmId": "hsm-ppzzfxbleki",
           "State": "CREATE_IN_PROGRESS"
       }
   }
   ```

1. Optionally verify the identity and authenticity of your new HSM
   https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/verify-hsm-identity.html

1. Wait for the state of the HSM to become `ACTIVE`:

   ```code
   $ aws --region <Var name="region"/> cloudhsmv2 describe-clusters --filters clusterIds=<Var name="cluster ID"/> \
         --query 'Clusters[].Hsms[].State'
   ```

1. To initialize the cluster, you must download and sign a certificate signing
   request (CSR) that is generated by the cluster's first HSM.
   Download the CSR from the AWS Console or via the AWS CLI:

   ```code
   $ aws --region <Var name="region"/> cloudhsmv2 describe-clusters --filters clusterIds=<Var name="cluster ID"/> \
         --query 'Clusters[].Certificates.ClusterCsr' --output text \
         > ClusterCsr.csr
   ```

1. Choose an appropriate RSA 2048 or RSA 4096 key and self-signed certificate to
   sign the HSM CSR.
   For a production cluster, AWS recommends a secured offsite and offline HSM.
   For a demonstration or test cluster, you can create a key and self-signed
   certificate with the following `openssl` commands:

   ```code
   $ openssl genrsa -aes256 -out customerCA.key 2048
   $ openssl req -new -x509 -days 3652 -key customerCA.key -out customerCA.crt
   ```

1. Sign the cluster CSR using the key and self-signed cert from the previous
   step.
   A demonstration `openssl` command to sign the CSR is:

   ```code
   $ openssl x509 -req -days 3652 -in ClusterCsr.csr \
         -CA customerCA.crt \
         -CAkey customerCA.key \
         -CAcreateserial \
         -out CustomerHsmCertificate.crt
   ```

1. Initialize the CloudHSM cluster by uploading the signed cert to the AWS
   Console or with the following AWS CLI command:

   ```code
   $ aws --region <Var name="region"/> cloudhsmv2 initialize-cluster --cluster-id <Var name="cluster ID"/> \
         --signed-cert file://CustomerHsmCertificate.crt \
         --trust-anchor file://customerCA.crt
   {
       "State": "INITIALIZE_IN_PROGRESS",
       "StateMessage": "Cluster is initializing. State will change to INITIALIZED upon completion."
   }
   ```

1. A security group with the same name as your CloudHSM cluster will have been
   automatically created when you created the cluster.
   Attach this security group to the EC2 instance where you will run your
   Teleport Auth Service to allow traffic between the Auth Service and your HSM.

1. On the Auth Service EC2 instance, install the CloudHSM CLI for the CloudHSM
    Client SDK 5.
    https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/gs_cloudhsm_cli-install.html

   Bootstrap the CLI by configuring the IP address of the new HSM:

   ```code
   $ sudo /opt/cloudhsm/bin/configure-cli -a <Var name="HSM IP address"/>
   ```

1. Copy the self-signed certificate from step 6 (`customerCA.crt`) to the EC2
    instance, save it at `/opt/cloudhsm/etc/customerCA.crt`.

1. Activate the CloudHSM cluster with the CloudHSM CLI by creating an admin user
    with a new password:

   ```text
   $ sudo /opt/cloudhsm/bin/cloudhsm-cli interactive
   aws-cloudhsm > cluster activate
   Enter password:
   Confirm password:
   {
     "error_code": 0,
     "data": "Cluster activation successful"
   }
   ```

1. Login to the CloudHSM CLI as the new admin user and create a Crypto User to
    be used by Teleport.
    Remember this new password because Teleport will use it later to authenticate
    to the PKCS#11 library.

   ```text
   aws-cloudhsm > login --username admin --role admin
   Enter password:
   {
     "error_code": 0,
     "data": {
       "username": "admin",
       "role": "admin"
     }
   }
   aws-cloudhsm > user create --username teleport --role crypto-user
   Enter password:
   Confirm password:
   {
     "error_code": 0,
     "data": {
       "username": "teleport",
       "role": "crypto-user"
     }
   }
   aws-cloudhsm > quit
   ```

1. Install the PKCS#11 library for the Client SDK 5 on the same Auth Service EC2 instance
    https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/pkcs11-library-install.html

   Bootstrap the PKCS#11 library by configuring the HSM IP address.
   If you only have one HSM in the cluster, you must include the
   `--disable-key-availability-check` flag.

   ```code
   $ sudo /opt/cloudhsm/bin/configure-pkcs11 --disable-key-availability-check -a <Var name="HSM IP address"/>
   ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="YubiHSM2">

1. Install the YubiHSM2 [SDK](https://developers.yubico.com/YubiHSM2/Releases/).

1. Start `yubihsm-connector` with debug logging enabled. This is a background
   process that you will need to keep running to facilitate connections to your
   YubiHSM2.

   ```code
   $ yubihsm-connector -d
   DEBU[0000] preflight complete                            cert= config= key= pid=73502 seccomp=false serial= syslog=false timeout=0s version=3.0.3
   DEBU[0000] takeoff                                       TLS=false listen="localhost:12345" pid=73502
   ```

1. Use `yubihsm-shell` to create a new
   [authentication key](https://docs.yubico.com/hardware/yubihsm-2/hsm-2-user-guide/hsm2-core-concepts.html#authentication-key)
   to be used by Teleport with the necessary
   [capabilities](https://docs.yubico.com/hardware/yubihsm-2/hsm-2-user-guide/hsm2-core-concepts.html#capability).

   YubiHSM2 comes with a factory default authentication key at slot 1 with password
   `password`. We recommend replacing this or changing the password as soon as
   possible.

   When creating the authentication key to be used by Teleport, the password
   must have at least 8 characters.

   ```text
   $ yubihsm-shell
   Using default connector URL: http://localhost:12345
   yubihsm> connect
   Session keepalive set up to run every 15 seconds
   yubihsm> session open 1
   Enter password:
   Created session 0

   # Create an Authentication Key for Teleport
   yubihsm> put authkey 0 0 "Teleport Auth Key" 1 generate-asymmetric-key:sign-pkcs:sign-pss:sign-ecdsa:delete-asymmetric-key sign-pkcs:sign-pss:decrypt-pkcs:decrypt-oaep:sign-ecdsa
   Enter password:
   Stored Authentication key 0x85cf

   # Make sure you can open a session with the new authentication key and password
   yubihsm> session open 0x85cf
   Enter password:
   Created session 1

   # Change the password for the factory default authentication key.
   # Remember to securely store this password somewhere.
   yubihsm> change authkey 0 1 authentication-key
   Enter password:
   ```

   Take note of the slot number of the new authentication key.
   In the above example this is the hex value `0x85cf`.
   This will need to be included in your Teleport configuration file in a later
   step.

1. Create a `yubihsm_pkcs11.conf` file to configure the address and port that
   `yubihsm-connector` is listening on and enable debug logging:

   ```text
   # /etc/yubihsm_pkcs11.conf
   connector = https://127.0.0.1:12345
   debug
   ```

1. Set the environment variable `YUBIHSM_PKCS11_CONF` to the path of your
   configuration file.
   This will be read by the PKCS#11 module and needs to be set in the Teleport
   Auth Service's environment.
   ```code
   $ export YUBIHSM_PKCS11_CONF=/etc/yubihsm_pkcs11.conf
   ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 2/5. Configure Teleport

To configure Teleport to use an HSM for all CA private key generation, storage,
and signing, include the `ca_key_params` section in `/etc/teleport.yaml` on the
Auth Service.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="AWS CloudHSM">
```yaml
# /etc/teleport.yaml
teleport:
  ...

auth_service:
  enabled: true
  ...

  ca_key_params:
    pkcs11:
      # this is the default install location of the PKCS#11 module for the
      # CloudHSM Client SDK 5
      module_path: /opt/cloudhsm/lib/libcloudhsm_pkcs11.so

      # token_label should always be "hsm1" for the CloudHSM SDK 5
      # if you prefer to use SDK version 3, replace this with "cavium"
      token_label: "hsm1"

      # pin should be set to the username and password of the Crypto User
      # created earlier in the guide
      pin: "<CU_username>:<CU_password>"
      # pin_path can optionally be used to read the pin from a file
      # pin_path: /path/to/pin_file
```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="YubiHSM2">
```yaml
# /etc/teleport.yaml
teleport:
  ...

auth_service:
  enabled: true
  ...

  ca_key_params:
    pkcs11:
      # this is the default installation path for Yubico's PKCS#11 module
      module_path: /usr/local/lib/pkcs11/yubihsm_pkcs11.dylib
      # slot_number should always be set to 0 for YubiHSM2
      slot_number: 0
      # pin should be the (hex) slot number of your authentication key,
      # concatenated with your chosen password
      pin: "85cfpassword"
      # pin_path can optionally be used to read the pin from a file
      # pin_path: /path/to/pin_file
```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 3/5. (Re)start Teleport Auth

If this is a new Teleport Auth Service which has not been started yet, starting
a brand new cluster with an empty backend, HSM keys will be automatically
generated at startup and no further action is required, skip to step 5.
Otherwise, continue reading.

If you are connecting an HSM to an existing Teleport cluster, restart the auth
server for the configuration changes to take effect.
New CA keys will automatically be generated in the HSM during the next CA
rotation.
Until a CA rotation is completed, the Auth Service will continue signing new
certificates with the existing software keys.

## Step 4/5. Certificate Rotation with HSM

When adding a new HSM to an existing Teleport cluster, or adding a new
HSM-connected Auth Service to an HA Teleport cluster, you will need to rotate
all Certificate Authorities in order for new certificates to be issued and
trusted.

`teleport start` will print a warning during startup if any CA needs to be rotated.
Any users allowed the `update` verb for `cert_authority` resources in any of
their Teleport roles will also see a cluster alert reminding them to rotate the
CAs.

CA rotation can be performed manually or semi-automatically, see our admin guide
on [Certificate rotation](../management/operations/ca-rotation.mdx).
All CAs listed in the output of `tctl status` must be rotated.

## Step 5/5. Confirm that Teleport is using your HSM

You are all set! You can confirm that HSM keys are being used a few different
ways:

1. `tctl status` will show `PKCS#11 HSM` as the `storage` method for all
   Certificate Authority keys.
1. Teleport Auth service logs will contain `Creating new HSM key pair`.
1. Your HSM's admin tool should show the newly created keys.

Commit message:

Expose configuration to set maximum number of PKCS#11 sessions (#52870)
The PKCS#11 that we use defaults to allowing 1024 concurrent
sessions. If an HSM is configured with a lower limit it results in
broken UX since the PKCS#11 library does not reuse open and available
sessions until it has opened the maximum number of sessions that it
can. While the library behavior is out of our control, we now allow
users the ability to specify what their desired max and propagate it
on to the PKCS#11 library so that it will not open more sessions
than the HSM will allow.

The auth config reference was updated to include `ca_key_params`.
While these config options were somewhat discoverable via individual
HSM guides, they were not mentioned in the auth reference.

docs/pages/admin-guides/deploy-a-cluster/hsm.mdx, after:

---
title: HSM Support
description: How to configure Hardware Security Modules to manage your Teleport CA private keys
h1: Teleport HSM Support
---

This guide will show you how to set up the Teleport Auth Service to use a
hardware security module (HSM) to store and handle private keys.

## Prerequisites

- Teleport v(=teleport.version=) Enterprise (self-hosted).
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)
- An HSM reachable from your Teleport Auth Service.
- The PKCS#11 module for your HSM.

(!docs/pages/includes/enterprise/hsm-warning.mdx!)

While most PKCS#11 HSMs should be supported, the Teleport team tests with AWS
CloudHSM, YubiHSM2, and SoftHSM2.

## Step 1/5. Set up your HSM

You will need to set up your HSM and make sure that it is accessible from your
Teleport Auth Service. You should create a unique HSM user or token for Teleport
to use.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="AWS CloudHSM">
1. Create a CloudHSM cluster in the VPC where you will run your Teleport Auth
   Service.
   https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/create-cluster.html

1. Wait for the newly created cluster to enter the "Uninitialized" state.

1. Add an HSM to the new cluster, using the AWS Console or the AWS CLI,
   assigning <Var name="region"/> to your AWS region and <Var name="availability zone"/>
   to your availability zone:

   ```code
   $ aws --region <Var name="region"/> cloudhsmv2 create-hsm --cluster-id <Var name="cluster ID"/> --availability-zone <Var name="availability zone"/>
   {
       "Hsm": {
           "AvailabilityZone": "ca-central-1a",
           "ClusterId": "cluster-6uysmebmutd",
           "SubnetId": "subnet-0c535b67a117f7186",
           "HsmId": "hsm-ppzzfxbleki",
           "State": "CREATE_IN_PROGRESS"
       }
   }
   ```

1. Optionally verify the identity and authenticity of your new HSM
   https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/verify-hsm-identity.html

1. Wait for the state of the HSM to become `ACTIVE`:

   ```code
   $ aws --region <Var name="region"/> cloudhsmv2 describe-clusters --filters clusterIds=<Var name="cluster ID"/> \
         --query 'Clusters[].Hsms[].State'
   ```

1. To initialize the cluster, you must download and sign a certificate signing
   request (CSR) that is generated by the cluster's first HSM.
   Download the CSR from the AWS Console or via the AWS CLI:

   ```code
   $ aws --region <Var name="region"/> cloudhsmv2 describe-clusters --filters clusterIds=<Var name="cluster ID"/> \
         --query 'Clusters[].Certificates.ClusterCsr' --output text \
         > ClusterCsr.csr
   ```

1. Choose an appropriate RSA 2048 or RSA 4096 key and self-signed certificate to
   sign the HSM CSR.
   For a production cluster, AWS recommends a secured offsite and offline HSM.
   For a demonstration or test cluster, you can create a key and self-signed
   certificate with the following `openssl` commands:

   ```code
   $ openssl genrsa -aes256 -out customerCA.key 2048
   $ openssl req -new -x509 -days 3652 -key customerCA.key -out customerCA.crt
   ```

1. Sign the cluster CSR using the key and self-signed cert from the previous
   step.
   A demonstration `openssl` command to sign the CSR is:

   ```code
   $ openssl x509 -req -days 3652 -in ClusterCsr.csr \
         -CA customerCA.crt \
         -CAkey customerCA.key \
         -CAcreateserial \
         -out CustomerHsmCertificate.crt
   ```

1. Initialize the CloudHSM cluster by uploading the signed cert to the AWS
   Console or with the following AWS CLI command:

   ```code
   $ aws --region <Var name="region"/> cloudhsmv2 initialize-cluster --cluster-id <Var name="cluster ID"/> \
         --signed-cert file://CustomerHsmCertificate.crt \
         --trust-anchor file://customerCA.crt
   {
       "State": "INITIALIZE_IN_PROGRESS",
       "StateMessage": "Cluster is initializing. State will change to INITIALIZED upon completion."
   }
   ```

1. A security group with the same name as your CloudHSM cluster will have been
   automatically created when you created the cluster.
   Attach this security group to the EC2 instance where you will run your
   Teleport Auth Service to allow traffic between the Auth Service and your HSM.

1. On the Auth Service EC2 instance, install the CloudHSM CLI for the CloudHSM
    Client SDK 5.
    https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/gs_cloudhsm_cli-install.html

   Bootstrap the CLI by configuring the IP address of the new HSM:

   ```code
   $ sudo /opt/cloudhsm/bin/configure-cli -a <Var name="HSM IP address"/>
   ```

1. Copy the self-signed certificate from step 6 (`customerCA.crt`) to the EC2
    instance, save it at `/opt/cloudhsm/etc/customerCA.crt`.

1. Activate the CloudHSM cluster with the CloudHSM CLI by creating an admin user
    with a new password:

   ```text
   $ sudo /opt/cloudhsm/bin/cloudhsm-cli interactive
   aws-cloudhsm > cluster activate
   Enter password:
   Confirm password:
   {
     "error_code": 0,
     "data": "Cluster activation successful"
   }
   ```

1. Login to the CloudHSM CLI as the new admin user and create a Crypto User to
    be used by Teleport.
    Remember this new password because Teleport will use it later to authenticate
    to the PKCS#11 library.

   ```text
   aws-cloudhsm > login --username admin --role admin
   Enter password:
   {
     "error_code": 0,
     "data": {
       "username": "admin",
       "role": "admin"
     }
   }
   aws-cloudhsm > user create --username teleport --role crypto-user
   Enter password:
   Confirm password:
   {
     "error_code": 0,
     "data": {
       "username": "teleport",
       "role": "crypto-user"
     }
   }
   aws-cloudhsm > quit
   ```

1. Install the PKCS#11 library for the Client SDK 5 on the same Auth Service EC2 instance
    https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/pkcs11-library-install.html

   Bootstrap the PKCS#11 library by configuring the HSM IP address.
   If you only have one HSM in the cluster, you must include the
   `--disable-key-availability-check` flag.

   ```code
   $ sudo /opt/cloudhsm/bin/configure-pkcs11 --disable-key-availability-check -a <Var name="HSM IP address"/>
   ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="YubiHSM2">

1. Install the YubiHSM2 [SDK](https://developers.yubico.com/YubiHSM2/Releases/).

1. Start `yubihsm-connector` with debug logging enabled. This is a background
   process that you will need to keep running to facilitate connections to your
   YubiHSM2.

   ```code
   $ yubihsm-connector -d
   DEBU[0000] preflight complete                            cert= config= key= pid=73502 seccomp=false serial= syslog=false timeout=0s version=3.0.3
   DEBU[0000] takeoff                                       TLS=false listen="localhost:12345" pid=73502
   ```

1. Use `yubihsm-shell` to create a new
   [authentication key](https://docs.yubico.com/hardware/yubihsm-2/hsm-2-user-guide/hsm2-core-concepts.html#authentication-key)
   to be used by Teleport with the necessary
   [capabilities](https://docs.yubico.com/hardware/yubihsm-2/hsm-2-user-guide/hsm2-core-concepts.html#capability).

   YubiHSM2 comes with a factory default authentication key at slot 1 with password
   `password`. We recommend replacing this or changing the password as soon as
   possible.

   When creating the authentication key to be used by Teleport, the password
   must have at least 8 characters.

   ```text
   $ yubihsm-shell
   Using default connector URL: http://localhost:12345
   yubihsm> connect
   Session keepalive set up to run every 15 seconds
   yubihsm> session open 1
   Enter password:
   Created session 0

   # Create an Authentication Key for Teleport
   yubihsm> put authkey 0 0 "Teleport Auth Key" 1 generate-asymmetric-key:sign-pkcs:sign-pss:sign-ecdsa:delete-asymmetric-key sign-pkcs:sign-pss:decrypt-pkcs:decrypt-oaep:sign-ecdsa
   Enter password:
   Stored Authentication key 0x85cf

   # Make sure you can open a session with the new authentication key and password
   yubihsm> session open 0x85cf
   Enter password:
   Created session 1

   # Change the password for the factory default authentication key.
   # Remember to securely store this password somewhere.
   yubihsm> change authkey 0 1 authentication-key
   Enter password:
   ```

   Take note of the slot number of the new authentication key.
   In the above example this is the hex value `0x85cf`.
   This will need to be included in your Teleport configuration file in a later
   step.

1. Create a `yubihsm_pkcs11.conf` file to configure the address and port that
   `yubihsm-connector` is listening on and enable debug logging:

   ```text
   # /etc/yubihsm_pkcs11.conf
   connector = https://127.0.0.1:12345
   debug
   ```

1. Set the environment variable `YUBIHSM_PKCS11_CONF` to the path of your
   configuration file.
   This will be read by the PKCS#11 module and needs to be set in the Teleport
   Auth Service's environment.
   ```code
   $ export YUBIHSM_PKCS11_CONF=/etc/yubihsm_pkcs11.conf
   ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 2/5. Configure Teleport

To configure Teleport to use an HSM for all CA private key generation, storage,
and signing, include the `ca_key_params` section in `/etc/teleport.yaml` on the
Auth Service.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="AWS CloudHSM">
```yaml
# /etc/teleport.yaml
teleport:
  ...

auth_service:
  enabled: true
  ...

  ca_key_params:
    pkcs11:
      # this is the default install location of the PKCS#11 module for the
      # CloudHSM Client SDK 5
      module_path: /opt/cloudhsm/lib/libcloudhsm_pkcs11.so

      # token_label should always be "hsm1" for the CloudHSM SDK 5
      # if you prefer to use SDK version 3, replace this with "cavium"
      token_label: "hsm1"

      # pin should be set to the username and password of the Crypto User
      # created earlier in the guide
      pin: "<CU_username>:<CU_password>"
      # pin_path can optionally be used to read the pin from a file
      # pin_path: /path/to/pin_file

      # max_sessions configures the maximum number of open sessions for the HSM.
      # If not set, it will default to the minimum of 1024 or the MaxRWSessionCount
      # reported by the PKCS#11 module for the token. If set, must be greater than 1.
      max_sessions: 10
```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="YubiHSM2">
```yaml
# /etc/teleport.yaml
teleport:
  ...

auth_service:
  enabled: true
  ...

  ca_key_params:
    pkcs11:
      # this is the default installation path for Yubico's PKCS#11 module
      module_path: /usr/local/lib/pkcs11/yubihsm_pkcs11.dylib
      # slot_number should always be set to 0 for YubiHSM2
      slot_number: 0
      # pin should be the (hex) slot number of your authentication key,
      # concatenated with your chosen password
      pin: "85cfpassword"
      # pin_path can optionally be used to read the pin from a file
      # pin_path: /path/to/pin_file

      # Optionally specify the maximum number of open sessions for the HSM.
      # If not set, it will default to 1024. If set, must be greater than 1.
      max_sessions: 10
```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 3/5. (Re)start Teleport Auth

If this is a new Teleport Auth Service which has not been started yet, starting
a brand new cluster with an empty backend, HSM keys will be automatically
generated at startup and no further action is required, skip to step 5.
Otherwise, continue reading.

If you are connecting an HSM to an existing Teleport cluster, restart the auth
server for the configuration changes to take effect.
New CA keys will automatically be generated in the HSM during the next CA
rotation.
Until a CA rotation is completed, the Auth Service will continue signing new
certificates with the existing software keys.

## Step 4/5. Certificate Rotation with HSM

When adding a new HSM to an existing Teleport cluster, or adding a new
HSM-connected Auth Service to an HA Teleport cluster, you will need to rotate
all Certificate Authorities in order for new certificates to be issued and
trusted.

`teleport start` will print a warning during startup if any CA needs to be rotated.
Any users allowed the `update` verb for `cert_authority` resources in any of
their Teleport roles will also see a cluster alert reminding them to rotate the
CAs.

CA rotation can be performed manually or semi-automatically, see our admin guide
on [Certificate rotation](../management/operations/ca-rotation.mdx).
All CAs listed in the output of `tctl status` must be rotated.

## Step 5/5. Confirm that Teleport is using your HSM

You are all set! You can confirm that HSM keys are being used a few different
ways:

1. `tctl status` will show `PKCS#11 HSM` as the `storage` method for all
   Certificate Authority keys.
1. Teleport Auth service logs will contain `Creating new HSM key pair`.
1. Your HSM's admin tool should show the newly created keys.
