docs/pages/admin-guides/deploy-a-cluster/linux-demo.mdx, before:

---
title: Run a Self-Hosted Demo Cluster 
description: This tutorial will guide you through the steps needed to install and run Teleport on a Linux server
videoBanner: BJWbSqiDLeU
tocDepth: 3
---

See how a self-hosted Teleport deployment works by completing the tutorial
below. This shows you how to spin up a single-instance Teleport cluster on a
Linux server using Teleport Community Edition. Once you deploy the cluster, you
can configure RBAC, register resources, and protect your small-scale demo
environments or home lab.

You can also get started right away with a production-ready Teleport cluster by
signing up for a [free trial of Teleport Enterprise
Cloud](https://goteleport.com/signup/).

<Figure width="700">
![Architecture of the setup you will complete in this
guide](../../../img/linux-server-diagram.png)
</Figure>

We will run the following Teleport services:

- **Teleport Auth Service:** The certificate authority for your cluster. It
  issues certificates and conducts authentication challenges. The Auth Service
  is typically inaccessible outside your private network.
- **Teleport Proxy Service:** The cluster frontend, which handles user requests,
  forwards user credentials to the Auth Service, and communicates with Teleport
  instances that enable access to specific resources in your infrastructure.
- **Teleport SSH Service:** An SSH server implementation that takes advantage of
  Teleport's short-lived certificates, sophisticated RBAC, session recording,
  and other features.

## Prerequisites

You will need the following to deploy a demo Teleport cluster. If your
environment doesn't meet the prerequisites, you can get started with Teleport by
signing up for a [free trial of Teleport Enterprise
Cloud](https://goteleport.com/signup/).

If you want to get a feel for Teleport commands and capabilities without setting
up any infrastructure, take a look at the browser-based [Teleport
Labs](https://goteleport.com/labs).

- A Linux host with only port `443` open to ingress traffic. You must be able
  to install and run software on the host. Either configure access to the host
  via SSH for the initial setup (and open an SSH port in addition port `443`)
  or enter the commands in this guide into an Amazon EC2 [user data
  script](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/user-data.html),
  Google Compute Engine [startup
  script](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/startup-scripts),
  or similar.

  For a quick demo environment you can use to follow this guide, consider
  installing our DigitalOcean 1-Click droplet. View the installation page on
  [DigitalOcean
  Marketplace](https://marketplace.digitalocean.com/apps/teleport). Once your
  droplet is ready, SSH into the droplet and follow the configuration wizard.

- A multi-factor authenticator app such as [Authy](https://authy.com/download/),
  [Google Authenticator](https://www.google.com/landing/2step/), or
  [1Password](https://support.1password.com/one-time-passwords/).

You must also have **one** of the following:
- A registered domain name.
- An authoritative DNS nameserver managed by your organization, plus an existing
  certificate authority. If using this approach, ensure that your browser is
  configured to use your organization's nameserver.

## Step 1/4. Configure DNS

Teleport uses TLS to provide secure access to its Proxy Service and Auth
Service, and this requires a domain name that clients can use to verify
Teleport's certificate. Set up two DNS `A` records, each pointing to the IP
address of your Linux host. Assuming `teleport.example.com` is your domain name,
set up records for:

|Domain|Reason|
|---|---|
|`teleport.example.com`|Traffic to the Proxy Service from users and services.|
|`*.teleport.example.com`|Traffic to web applications registered with Teleport. Teleport issues a subdomain of your cluster's domain name to each application.|

## Step 2/4. Set up Teleport on your Linux host

### Install Teleport

On your Linux host, run the following command to install the Teleport binary:

```code
$ curl (=teleport.teleport_install_script_url=) | bash -s (=teleport.version=)
```

### Configure Teleport

Generate a configuration file for Teleport using the `teleport configure` command.
This command requires information about a TLS certificate and private key.

(!docs/pages/includes/tls-certificate-setup.mdx!)

### Start Teleport

(!docs/pages/includes/start-teleport.mdx!)

Access Teleport's Web UI via HTTPS at the domain you created earlier (e.g.,
`https://teleport.example.com`). You should see a welcome screen similar to the
following:

![Teleport Welcome Screen](../../../img/quickstart/welcome.png)

## Step 3/4. Create a Teleport user and set up multi-factor authentication

In this step, we'll create a new Teleport user, `teleport-admin`, which is
allowed to log into SSH hosts as any of the principals `root`, `ubuntu`, or
`ec2-user`.

On your Linux host, run the following command:

```code
# tctl is an administrative tool that is used to configure Teleport's auth service.
$ sudo tctl users add teleport-admin --roles=editor,access --logins=root,ubuntu,ec2-user
```

The command prints a message similar to the following:

```text
User "teleport-admin" has been created but requires a password. Share this URL with the user to complete user setup, link is valid for 1h:
https://teleport.example.com:443/web/invite/123abc456def789ghi123abc456def78

NOTE: Make sure teleport.example.com:443 points at a Teleport proxy which users can access.
```

Visit the provided URL in order to create your Teleport user.

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="OS User Mappings"
>

  The users that you specify in the `logins` flag (e.g., `root`, `ubuntu` and
  `ec2-user` in our examples) must exist on your Linux host. Otherwise, you
  will get authentication errors later in this tutorial.

  If a user does not already exist, you can create it with `adduser <login>` or
  use [host user creation](../../enroll-resources/server-access/guides/host-user-creation.mdx).

  If you do not have the permission to create new users on the Linux host, run
  `tctl users add teleport $(whoami)` to explicitly allow Teleport to
  authenticate as the user that you have currently logged in as.

</Admonition>

Teleport enforces the use of multi-factor authentication by default. It supports
one-time passwords (OTP) and multi-factor authenticators (WebAuthn). In this
guide, you will need to enroll an OTP authenticator application using the QR
code on the Teleport welcome screen.

<Details title="Logging in via the CLI">

In addition to Teleport's Web UI, you can access resources in your
infrastructure via the `tsh` client tool.

Install `tsh` on your local workstation:

(!docs/pages/includes/install-tsh.mdx!)

Log in to receive short-lived certificates from Teleport. Replace 
<Var name="teleport.example.com" /> with your Teleport cluster's public address
as configured above:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=<Var name="teleport.example.com" /> --user=teleport-admin
> Profile URL:        https://teleport.example.com:443
  Logged in as:       teleport-admin
  Cluster:            teleport.example.com
  Roles:              access, editor
  Logins:             root, ubuntu, ec2-user
  Kubernetes:         enabled
  Valid until:        2022-04-26 03:04:46 -0400 EDT [valid for 12h0m0s]
  Extensions:         permit-agent-forwarding, permit-port-forwarding, permit-pty
```

</Details>

## Step 4/4. Enroll your infrastructure

With Teleport, you can protect all of the resources in your infrastructure
behind a single identity-aware access proxy, including servers, databases,
applications, Kubernetes clusters, Windows desktops, and cloud provider APIs.

To enroll a resource with Teleport, visit the Web UI and click **Enroll New
Resource**. The Web UI will show you the steps you can take to enroll your new
resource.

![Adding resources](../../../img/add-resources.png)

On the home page of the Web UI, you can see that you have already enrolled your
Linux server. 

## Next step: deploy agents

Teleport **Agents** proxy traffic to infrastructure resources like servers,
databases, Kubernetes clusters, cloud provider APIs, and Windows desktops. 

Step 4 showed you how to install agents manually, and you can also launch agents
and enroll resources with them using infrastructure-as-code tools. For example,
you can use Terraform to declare a pool of Teleport agents and configure them to
proxy your infrastructure. Read [Deploy Teleport Agents with
Terraform](../../enroll-resources/agents/introduction.mdx) to get started.

Commit message:

Update the Linux Server guide (#52471)
Update the guide for Teleport v17 based on manual testing.

- Ensure that variable names are consistent.
- Update images
- Update link targets
- A couple of minor readability improvements

docs/pages/admin-guides/deploy-a-cluster/linux-demo.mdx, after:

---
title: Run a Self-Hosted Demo Cluster 
description: This tutorial will guide you through the steps needed to install and run Teleport on a Linux server
videoBanner: BJWbSqiDLeU
tocDepth: 3
---

See how a self-hosted Teleport deployment works by completing the tutorial
below. This shows you how to spin up a single-instance Teleport cluster on a
Linux server using Teleport Community Edition. Once you deploy the cluster, you
can configure RBAC, register resources, and protect your small-scale demo
environments or home lab.

You can also get started right away with a production-ready Teleport cluster by
signing up for a [free trial of Teleport Enterprise
Cloud](https://goteleport.com/signup/).

<Figure width="700">
![Architecture of the setup you will complete in this
guide](../../../img/linux-server-diagram.png)
</Figure>

We will run the following Teleport services:

- **Teleport Auth Service:** The certificate authority for your cluster. It
  issues certificates and conducts authentication challenges. The Auth Service
  is typically inaccessible outside your private network.
- **Teleport Proxy Service:** The cluster frontend, which handles user requests,
  forwards user credentials to the Auth Service, and communicates with Teleport
  instances that enable access to specific resources in your infrastructure.
- **Teleport SSH Service:** An SSH server implementation that takes advantage of
  Teleport's short-lived certificates, sophisticated RBAC, session recording,
  and other features.

## Prerequisites

You will need the following to deploy a demo Teleport cluster. If your
environment doesn't meet the prerequisites, you can get started with Teleport by
signing up for a [free trial of Teleport Enterprise
Cloud](https://goteleport.com/signup/).

If you want to get a feel for Teleport commands and capabilities without setting
up any infrastructure, take a look at the browser-based [Teleport
Labs](https://goteleport.com/labs).

- A Linux host with only port `443` open to ingress traffic. You must be able
  to install and run software on the host. Either configure access to the host
  via SSH for the initial setup (and open an SSH port in addition port `443`)
  or enter the commands in this guide into an Amazon EC2 [user data
  script](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/user-data.html),
  Google Compute Engine [startup
  script](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/startup-scripts),
  or similar.

  For a quick demo environment you can use to follow this guide, consider
  installing our DigitalOcean 1-Click droplet. View the installation page on
  [DigitalOcean
  Marketplace](https://marketplace.digitalocean.com/apps/teleport). Once your
  droplet is ready, SSH into the droplet and follow the configuration wizard.

- A multi-factor authenticator app such as [Authy](https://authy.com/download/),
  [Google Authenticator](https://www.google.com/landing/2step/), or
  [1Password](https://support.1password.com/one-time-passwords/).

You must also have **one** of the following:
- A registered domain name.
- An authoritative DNS nameserver managed by your organization, plus an existing
  certificate authority. If using this approach, ensure that your browser is
  configured to use your organization's nameserver.

## Step 1/4. Configure DNS

Teleport uses TLS to provide secure access to its Proxy Service and Auth
Service, and this requires a domain name that clients can use to verify
Teleport's certificate. Set up two DNS `A` records, each pointing to the IP
address of your Linux host. Assuming `teleport.example.com` is your domain name,
set up records for:

|Domain|Reason|
|---|---|
|`teleport.example.com`|Traffic to the Proxy Service from users and services.|
|`*.teleport.example.com`|Traffic to web applications registered with Teleport. Teleport issues a subdomain of your cluster's domain name to each application.|

## Step 2/4. Set up Teleport on your Linux host

In this step, you will log into your Linux host, download the Teleport binary,
generate a Teleport configuration file, and start the Teleport Auth Service,
Proxy Service, and SSH Service on the host.

### Install Teleport

On your Linux host, run the following command to install the Teleport binary:

```code
$ curl (=teleport.teleport_install_script_url=) | bash -s (=teleport.version=)
```

### Configure Teleport

Generate a configuration file for Teleport using the `teleport configure` command.
This command requires information about a TLS certificate and private key.

(!docs/pages/includes/tls-certificate-setup.mdx!)

### Start Teleport

(!docs/pages/includes/start-teleport.mdx!)

Access the Teleport Web UI via HTTPS at the domain you created earlier at 
<Var name="teleport.example.com" /> and accept the terms of using Teleport
Community Edition.

You should see a welcome screen similar to
the following:

![Teleport Welcome Screen](../../../img/quickstart/welcome.png)

## Step 3/4. Create a Teleport user and set up multi-factor authentication

In this step, we'll create a new Teleport user, `teleport-admin`, which is
allowed to log into SSH hosts as any of the principals `root`, `ubuntu`, or
`ec2-user`.

On your Linux host, run the following command:

```code
# tctl is an administrative tool that is used to configure Teleport's auth service.
$ sudo tctl users add teleport-admin --roles=editor,access --logins=root,ubuntu,ec2-user
```

The command prints a message similar to the following:

```text
User "teleport-admin" has been created but requires a password. Share this URL with the user to complete user setup, link is valid for 1h:
https://teleport.example.com:443/web/invite/123abc456def789ghi123abc456def78

NOTE: Make sure teleport.example.com:443 points at a Teleport proxy which users can access.
```

Visit the provided URL in order to create your Teleport user.

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="OS User Mappings"
>

  The users that you specify in the `logins` flag (e.g., `root`, `ubuntu` and
  `ec2-user` in our examples) must exist on your Linux host. Otherwise, you
  will get authentication errors later in this tutorial.

  If a user does not already exist, you can create it with `adduser <login>` or
  use [host user creation](../../enroll-resources/server-access/guides/host-user-creation.mdx).

  If you do not have the permission to create new users on the Linux host, run
  `tctl users add teleport $(whoami)` to explicitly allow Teleport to
  authenticate as the user that you have currently logged in as.

</Admonition>

Teleport enforces the use of multi-factor authentication by default. It supports
one-time passwords (OTP) and multi-factor authenticators (WebAuthn). In this
guide, you will need to enroll an OTP authenticator application using the QR
code on the Teleport welcome screen.

<Details title="Logging in via the CLI">

In addition to Teleport's Web UI, you can access resources in your
infrastructure via the `tsh` client tool.

Install `tsh` on your local workstation:

(!docs/pages/includes/install-tsh.mdx!)

Log in to receive short-lived certificates from Teleport. Replace 
<Var name="teleport.example.com" /> with your Teleport cluster's public address
as configured above:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=<Var name="teleport.example.com" /> --user=teleport-admin
> Profile URL:        https://teleport.example.com:443
  Logged in as:       teleport-admin
  Cluster:            teleport.example.com
  Roles:              access, editor
  Logins:             root, ubuntu, ec2-user
  Kubernetes:         enabled
  Valid until:        2022-04-26 03:04:46 -0400 EDT [valid for 12h0m0s]
  Extensions:         permit-agent-forwarding, permit-port-forwarding, permit-pty
```

</Details>

## Step 4/4. Enroll your infrastructure

Once you finish setting up your user, you will see your SSH server in the
Teleport Web UI:

![Teleport Web UI showing an SSH server](../../../img/new-ssh-server.png)

With Teleport, you can protect all of the resources in your infrastructure
behind a single identity-aware access proxy, including servers, databases,
applications, Kubernetes clusters, Windows desktops, and cloud provider APIs.

To enroll a resource with Teleport, visit the Web UI and click **Enroll New
Resource**. The Web UI will show you the steps you can take to enroll your new
resource.

## Next step: deploy Teleport Agents

Teleport **Agents** proxy traffic to infrastructure resources like servers,
databases, Kubernetes clusters, cloud provider APIs, and Windows desktops. 

Step 4 showed you how to install agents manually, and you can also launch agents
and enroll resources with them using infrastructure-as-code tools. For example,
you can use Terraform to declare a pool of Teleport agents and configure them to
proxy your infrastructure. Read [Protect Infrastructure with Teleport](../../enroll-resources/agents/introduction.mdx) to get started.
