docs/pages/faq.mdx, before:

---
title: Teleport FAQ
description: Frequently Asked Questions About Using Teleport
h1: Teleport FAQ
---

This page includes answers to frequently asked questions about setting up,
managing, and using Teleport. If you are new to Teleport, read our [Getting
Started Guide](get-started.mdx).

## Can I use Teleport in production today?

Teleport has been deployed on server clusters with thousands of hosts at
Fortune 500 companies. It has been through several security audits from
nationally recognized technology security companies, so we are comfortable with
the stability of Teleport from a security perspective.

## Can I connect to nodes behind a firewall?

Yes, Teleport supports reverse SSH tunnels out of the box. To configure
behind-firewall clusters, see [Configure Trusted Clusters](admin-guides/management/admin/trustedclusters.mdx).

## How is Teleport's Community Edition different from Enterprise?

Teleport provides two editions:

- Teleport Enterprise
- Teleport Community Edition

Here is a detailed breakdown of the differences between Teleport's editions.

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-comparison.mdx!)

## Should we use Teleport Enterprise or Teleport Community Edition for connecting resources to our Teleport cluster?

(!docs/pages/includes/ent-vs-community-faq.mdx!)

## Can individual agents create reverse tunnels to the Proxy Service without creating a new cluster?

Yes. When running a Teleport Agent, use the `--auth-server` flag to point to the
Proxy Service address (this would be `public_addr` and `web_listen_addr` in your
file configuration). For more information, see
[Adding Nodes to the
Cluster](./enroll-resources/agents/join-services-to-your-cluster/join-token.mdx).

## Can Nodes use a single port for reverse tunnels?

Yes, Teleport supports tunnel multiplexing on a single port. Set the
`tunnel_listen_addr` to use the same port as the `web_listen_addr` address
setting in the `proxy_service` configuration. Teleport will automatically use
multiplexing with that configuration.

## Can Teleport be deployed in agentless mode?

Yes. All Teleport services support agentless mode, where the service proxies
traffic to an upstream infrastructure resource not available on `localhost`.

With Teleport in agentless mode, you can easily control access to SSH servers,
Kubernetes clusters, desktops, databases, and internal applications without
running any additional software on your servers. Agentless mode supports session
recordings and audit logs for deep understanding into user behavior.

For capabilities such as kernel-level logging and user provisioning, we
recommend Teleport as a drop in replacement for OpenSSH. Since Teleport replaces
the OpenSSH agent while preserving OpenSSH's functionality, you get more
functionality without a net addition of an agent on your system.

## Can I use OpenSSH with a Teleport cluster?

Yes, this question comes up often and is related to the previous one. Take a
look at [Using OpenSSH Guide](enroll-resources/server-access/openssh/openssh-agentless.mdx).

## Can I copy files from one Teleport node to another?

Yes, Teleport supports [Headless WebAuthn authentication](admin-guides/access-controls/guides/headless.mdx),
which allows you to perform operations like `tsh ssh` or `tsh scp` from remote systems where you
are not logged in to Teleport or may not have access to a browser.

## `tsh` is very slow on Windows, what to do?

If your host machine is joined to an Active Directory domain, you might find
user lookups take a lot longer than you expect. If possible, we recommend
updating `tsh` to v18 or later, which contains an optimized user lookup
algorithm.

If upgrading is not possible, you can use environment variables to set default
account information for your Teleport user. If you are experiencing long lookup
times on Windows, do the following:

- Either set the `TELEPORT_USER` environment variable or set the `--user` flag to the name of your Teleport user.
- Either set the `TELEPORT_LOGIN` environment variable or set the `--login` flag to the name of current host user. This setting can be overridden if you open a new SSH session on a machine as a different user.
- Set the `TELEPORT_HOME` environment variable to be the home directory of your current host user + `\.tsh`. For example, if your home directory is `C:\Users\Me`, you'd set `TELEPORT_HOME` to `C:\Users\Me\.tsh`.

You can set these environment variables globally in Windows so that you don't have to set them every
time you run `tsh`.

## Which version of Teleport is supported?

Teleport releases a new major version approximately every 4 months, and provides
security-critical support for the current and two previous major versions. With
our typical release cadence, we usually support each major version for 12
months.

### Supported versions

Here are the major versions of Teleport and their support windows:

| Release | Release Date      | EOL           | Minimum `tsh` version |
|---------|-------------------|---------------|-----------------------|
| v17.0   | November 16, 2024 | November 2025 | v16.0.0               |
| v16.0   | June 14, 2024     | June 2025     | v15.0.0               |
| v15.0   | January 29, 2024  | January 2025  | v14.0.0               |

### Version compatibility

(!docs/pages/includes/compatibility.mdx!)

## Does the Web UI support copy and paste?

Yes. You can copy and paste using a mouse.

## What TCP ports does Teleport use?

Please refer to our [Networking](./reference/networking.mdx) guide.

## Does Teleport support authentication via OIDC, SAML, or Active Directory?

Teleport offers this feature for the Enterprise (Cloud) and Enterprise
(Self-Hosted) versions of Teleport.

## Why do changes to a user's role set only take effect on the log next login?

A Teleport user's assigned roles are embedded in the client certificate they
receive upon logging on. This certificate remains valid and can be used until
its expiry, even if the user's role set has changed.

To get a new certificate with the new role set, the user will need to log out
and log back in.

Revocation of Teleport access should be done with Teleport's
[session and identity locks](./admin-guides/access-controls/guides/locking.mdx),
not by removing roles.

## Does Teleport support provisioning users via SCIM?

Teleport supports [SCIM](https://scim.cloud/) provisioning for Okta via the
hosted Okta integration, available in the Enterprise (Cloud) and Enterprise
(Self-Hosted) versions of Teleport.

Refer to the [hosted Okta integration guide](./enroll-resources/application-access/okta/hosted-guide.mdx)
for details on setting up and configuring SCIM support.

## Why do I see an alert that some agents are out of date?

Teleport monitors the inventory of all cluster components and compares their
Teleport versions with the latest release on our GitHub page. If a component is
not on the latest release, Teleport will create a cluster alert encouraging
users to upgrade.

This check is performed against all cluster components, including the Proxy
Service and Auth Service, as well as agents running other Teleport Services.

## What is the minimum TLS version that Teleport requires?

Teleport requires a minimum of TLS version 1.2.

This means that when applications and clients establish or accept TLS
connections with Teleport processes, they must use TLS 1.2 or a higher protocol
version. Teleport enforces this requirement in all operations that involve TLS
connections.

## Can I suppress warnings about available upgrades?

Yes. The `tctl alerts ack` command can be used to acknowledge an alert and
temporarily prevent it from being displayed to users. To acknowledge an alert,
you need its ID. You can get a listing of all alerts and their IDs with the
`tctl alerts list` command.

For detailed information on this family of commands, see the
[CLI Reference](./reference/cli/tctl.mdx#tctl-alerts-list).

## Does Teleport send any data back to the cloud?

The open source edition of Teleport does not send any information to our
company, and can be used on servers without internet access.

The commercial editions of Teleport can optionally be configured to send
anonymized information, depending on the license purchased. This information
contains the following:

- Teleport license identifier;
- anonymized cluster name and Teleport Auth Service host ID;
- for each Teleport user, the anonymized user name and a per-protocol count of
  interactions - Teleport logins, SSH and Kubernetes exec sessions, Application
  access web sessions and TCP connections, SSH port forwards, Kubernetes API
  requests, SFTP actions.

The anonymization is done by passing names and IDs through HMAC-SHA-256, with a
HMAC key that's randomly generated when the Teleport cluster is initialized for
the first time and is never shared with us; this makes it infeasible for anyone
without access to the cluster to deanonymize the data we store.

The code that aggregates and anonymizes this data can be found [in our
repository on
GitHub](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/tree/master/lib/usagereporter/teleport/aggregating).

For more details, see the [Usage Reporting and Billing](./usage-billing.mdx)
guide.

Reach out to `sales@goteleport.com` if you have questions about the commercial
editions of Teleport.

### Teleport Connect

(!docs/pages/includes/teleport-connect-telemetry.mdx!)

If you no longer want to send usage data, see [disabling telemetry](./connect-your-client/teleport-connect.mdx#disabling-telemetry).

Commit message:

Move version support table to Upcoming Releases (#53046)
Ports #53003 to `master`

This change helps guarantee that we'll update the version support table
at the same time as the upcoming release table to keep our support
windows up to date. Since we otherwise do not update the two tables at
the same time, the supported version table has become out of date.

This change also updates support windows based on the plan to release
v18 in May, 2025, with the assumption that we release a major version
every 4 months.

This change also moves the compatibility description from FAQ to
Upcoming Releases so we keep this info in one place, and links to
Upcoming Releases from the relevant section of the FAQ.

Since the docs engine automatically copies the Upcoming Releases page
from the default version to all four versions of the docs, this change
does not edit the Upcoming Releases page for this version.

This change removes an item from the docs test plan re: editing the
supported versions table, since we'll be doing this continuously rather
than when we release a new major version.

docs/pages/faq.mdx, after:

---
title: Teleport FAQ
description: Frequently Asked Questions About Using Teleport
h1: Teleport FAQ
---

This page includes answers to frequently asked questions about setting up,
managing, and using Teleport. If you are new to Teleport, read our [Getting
Started Guide](get-started.mdx).

## Can I use Teleport in production today?

Teleport has been deployed on server clusters with thousands of hosts at
Fortune 500 companies. It has been through several security audits from
nationally recognized technology security companies, so we are comfortable with
the stability of Teleport from a security perspective.

## Can I connect to nodes behind a firewall?

Yes, Teleport supports reverse SSH tunnels out of the box. To configure
behind-firewall clusters, see [Configure Trusted Clusters](admin-guides/management/admin/trustedclusters.mdx).

## How is Teleport's Community Edition different from Enterprise?

Teleport provides two editions:

- Teleport Enterprise
- Teleport Community Edition

Here is a detailed breakdown of the differences between Teleport's editions.

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-comparison.mdx!)

## Should we use Teleport Enterprise or Teleport Community Edition for connecting resources to our Teleport cluster?

(!docs/pages/includes/ent-vs-community-faq.mdx!)

## Can individual agents create reverse tunnels to the Proxy Service without creating a new cluster?

Yes. When running a Teleport Agent, use the `--auth-server` flag to point to the
Proxy Service address (this would be `public_addr` and `web_listen_addr` in your
file configuration). For more information, see
[Adding Nodes to the
Cluster](./enroll-resources/agents/join-services-to-your-cluster/join-token.mdx).

## Can Nodes use a single port for reverse tunnels?

Yes, Teleport supports tunnel multiplexing on a single port. Set the
`tunnel_listen_addr` to use the same port as the `web_listen_addr` address
setting in the `proxy_service` configuration. Teleport will automatically use
multiplexing with that configuration.

## Can Teleport be deployed in agentless mode?

Yes. All Teleport services support agentless mode, where the service proxies
traffic to an upstream infrastructure resource not available on `localhost`.

With Teleport in agentless mode, you can easily control access to SSH servers,
Kubernetes clusters, desktops, databases, and internal applications without
running any additional software on your servers. Agentless mode supports session
recordings and audit logs for deep understanding into user behavior.

For capabilities such as kernel-level logging and user provisioning, we
recommend Teleport as a drop in replacement for OpenSSH. Since Teleport replaces
the OpenSSH agent while preserving OpenSSH's functionality, you get more
functionality without a net addition of an agent on your system.

## Can I use OpenSSH with a Teleport cluster?

Yes, this question comes up often and is related to the previous one. Take a
look at [Using OpenSSH Guide](enroll-resources/server-access/openssh/openssh-agentless.mdx).

## Can I copy files from one Teleport node to another?

Yes, Teleport supports [Headless WebAuthn authentication](admin-guides/access-controls/guides/headless.mdx),
which allows you to perform operations like `tsh ssh` or `tsh scp` from remote systems where you
are not logged in to Teleport or may not have access to a browser.

## `tsh` is very slow on Windows, what to do?

If your host machine is joined to an Active Directory domain, you might find
user lookups take a lot longer than you expect. If possible, we recommend
updating `tsh` to v18 or later, which contains an optimized user lookup
algorithm.

If upgrading is not possible, you can use environment variables to set default
account information for your Teleport user. If you are experiencing long lookup
times on Windows, do the following:

- Either set the `TELEPORT_USER` environment variable or set the `--user` flag to the name of your Teleport user.
- Either set the `TELEPORT_LOGIN` environment variable or set the `--login` flag to the name of current host user. This setting can be overridden if you open a new SSH session on a machine as a different user.
- Set the `TELEPORT_HOME` environment variable to be the home directory of your current host user + `\.tsh`. For example, if your home directory is `C:\Users\Me`, you'd set `TELEPORT_HOME` to `C:\Users\Me\.tsh`.

You can set these environment variables globally in Windows so that you don't have to set them every
time you run `tsh`.

## Which version of Teleport is supported?

See [Upcoming Releases](upcoming-releases.mdx) for the versions of Teleport that
we support and how long we plan to continue supporting them.

## Does the Web UI support copy and paste?

Yes. You can copy and paste using a mouse.

## What TCP ports does Teleport use?

Please refer to our [Networking](./reference/networking.mdx) guide.

## Does Teleport support authentication via OIDC, SAML, or Active Directory?

Teleport offers this feature for the Enterprise (Cloud) and Enterprise
(Self-Hosted) versions of Teleport.

## Why do changes to a user's role set only take effect on the log next login?

A Teleport user's assigned roles are embedded in the client certificate they
receive upon logging on. This certificate remains valid and can be used until
its expiry, even if the user's role set has changed.

To get a new certificate with the new role set, the user will need to log out
and log back in.

Revocation of Teleport access should be done with Teleport's
[session and identity locks](./admin-guides/access-controls/guides/locking.mdx),
not by removing roles.

## Does Teleport support provisioning users via SCIM?

Teleport supports [SCIM](https://scim.cloud/) provisioning for Okta via the
hosted Okta integration, available in the Enterprise (Cloud) and Enterprise
(Self-Hosted) versions of Teleport.

Refer to the [hosted Okta integration guide](./enroll-resources/application-access/okta/hosted-guide.mdx)
for details on setting up and configuring SCIM support.

## Why do I see an alert that some agents are out of date?

Teleport monitors the inventory of all cluster components and compares their
Teleport versions with the latest release on our GitHub page. If a component is
not on the latest release, Teleport will create a cluster alert encouraging
users to upgrade.

This check is performed against all cluster components, including the Proxy
Service and Auth Service, as well as agents running other Teleport Services.

## What is the minimum TLS version that Teleport requires?

Teleport requires a minimum of TLS version 1.2.

This means that when applications and clients establish or accept TLS
connections with Teleport processes, they must use TLS 1.2 or a higher protocol
version. Teleport enforces this requirement in all operations that involve TLS
connections.

## Can I suppress warnings about available upgrades?

Yes. The `tctl alerts ack` command can be used to acknowledge an alert and
temporarily prevent it from being displayed to users. To acknowledge an alert,
you need its ID. You can get a listing of all alerts and their IDs with the
`tctl alerts list` command.

For detailed information on this family of commands, see the
[CLI Reference](./reference/cli/tctl.mdx#tctl-alerts-list).

## Does Teleport send any data back to the cloud?

The open source edition of Teleport does not send any information to our
company, and can be used on servers without internet access.

The commercial editions of Teleport can optionally be configured to send
anonymized information, depending on the license purchased. This information
contains the following:

- Teleport license identifier;
- anonymized cluster name and Teleport Auth Service host ID;
- for each Teleport user, the anonymized user name and a per-protocol count of
  interactions - Teleport logins, SSH and Kubernetes exec sessions, Application
  access web sessions and TCP connections, SSH port forwards, Kubernetes API
  requests, SFTP actions.

The anonymization is done by passing names and IDs through HMAC-SHA-256, with a
HMAC key that's randomly generated when the Teleport cluster is initialized for
the first time and is never shared with us; this makes it infeasible for anyone
without access to the cluster to deanonymize the data we store.

The code that aggregates and anonymizes this data can be found [in our
repository on
GitHub](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/tree/master/lib/usagereporter/teleport/aggregating).

For more details, see the [Usage Reporting and Billing](./usage-billing.mdx)
guide.

Reach out to `sales@goteleport.com` if you have questions about the commercial
editions of Teleport.

### Teleport Connect

(!docs/pages/includes/teleport-connect-telemetry.mdx!)

If you no longer want to send usage data, see [disabling telemetry](./connect-your-client/teleport-connect.mdx#disabling-telemetry).
