docs/pages/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Installing Teleport
description: How to install Teleport and Teleport's client tools on your platform, including binaries and instructions for Docker and Helm.
h1: Installation
videoBanner: VifXROQFjwg
---

<Admonition type="tip" title="First time trying Teleport?">

If you are new to Teleport, we recommend following our
[getting started guides](./try-out-teleport/introduction.mdx).

</Admonition>

## Operating system support

Teleport is officially supported on the platforms listed below. It is worth
noting that the open-source community has been successful in building and
running Teleport on UNIX variants other than Linux \[1].

| Operating System | `teleport` Daemon | `tctl` Admin Tool | `tsh` and Teleport Connect User Clients [2] | Web UI (via the browser) | `tbot` Daemon |
| - | - | - | - | - | - |
| Linux v2.6.23+ (RHEL/CentOS 7+, Ubuntu 14.04+, and Debian 8+) \[3] | yes | yes | yes | yes | yes |
| macOS v10.13+  (High Sierra)| yes | yes | yes | yes | yes |
| Windows 10+ (rev. 1607) \[4] | no | no | yes | yes | no |

\[1] *Teleport is written in Go and it's possible to build it on
any OS supported by the [Golang toolchain](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/MinimumRequirements)*.

\[2] *`tsh` is a Command Line Client (CLI) and Teleport Connect is a Graphical User Interface (GUI) desktop client. See
  [Using Teleport Connect](connect-your-client/teleport-connect.mdx) for usage and installation*.
 
\[3] *Enhanced Session Recording requires Linux kernel v5.8+*.

\[4] *Teleport server does not run on Windows yet, but `tsh` and Teleport Connect (the Teleport desktop clients)
supports most features on Windows 10 and later.*

## Linux

All installations include `teleport`, `tsh`, `tctl`, and `tbot`.

(!docs/pages/includes/permission-warning.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

<ScopedBlock scope="oss">

<Details title="Using APT or YUM for versions prior to Teleport 10?" scopeOnly={false}>

If you've previously installed Teleport via the APT
repo at `https://deb.releases.teleport.dev/`, you can upgrade by
re-running the "Debian/Ubuntu (DEB)" install instructions above.

We will also continue to maintain the legacy APT repo at
`https://deb.releases.teleport.dev/` for the foreseeable future.

</Details>

Check the [Downloads](https://goteleport.com/download/) page for the most
up-to-date information.

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope="cloud">

Check the [Cloud Downloads](./choose-an-edition/teleport-cloud/downloads.mdx) page for the most up-to-date
information on obtaining Teleport binaries compatible with Teleport Cloud.

</ScopedBlock>

## Docker

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss"]} label="Open Source">
(!docs/pages/includes/docker-images-oss.mdx!)

For instructions on running containers with these images, see
[Getting started with Teleport using Docker](./management/guides/docker.mdx).

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise", "cloud"]} label="Commercial">

We provide pre-built `amd64`, `arm`, and `arm64` Docker images for every version of Teleport Enterprise.

(!docs/pages/includes/enterprise/docker-images.mdx!)

For instructions on running containers with these images, see
[Teleport Enterprise using Docker](./management/guides/docker.mdx).

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Helm

(!docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/helm-repo-add.mdx!)

There are two charts available to install. Please see our guide for using each
chart.

|Chart|Included Services|Values Reference|
|-|-|-|
|`teleport-cluster`|Auth Service<br/>Proxy Service<br/>Other Teleport services if using a custom configuration|[Reference](reference/helm-reference/teleport-cluster.mdx)
|`teleport-kube-agent`|Kubernetes Service<br/>Application Service<br/>Database Service|[Reference](reference/helm-reference/teleport-kube-agent.mdx)|


## macOS

<Tabs dropdownView dropdownCaption="Teleport Edition">
<TabItem label="Open Source" scope="oss">
  <Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Installer">

  You can download one of the following .pkg installers for macOS:

  |Link|Binaries|
  |-|-|
  |[`teleport-(=teleport.version=).pkg`](https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-(=teleport.version=).pkg)|`teleport`<br/>`tctl`<br/>`tsh`<br/>`tbot`|
  |[`tsh-(=teleport.version=).pkg`](https://cdn.teleport.dev/tsh-(=teleport.version=).pkg)|`tsh`|

  You can also fetch an installer via the command line:

  ```code
  $ curl -O https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-(=teleport.version=).pkg
  # Installs on Macintosh HD
  $ sudo installer -pkg teleport-(=teleport.version=).pkg -target /
  # Password:
  # installer: Package name is teleport-(=teleport.version=)
  # installer: Upgrading at base path /
  # installer: The upgrade was successful.
  $ which teleport
  # /usr/local/bin/teleport
  ```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="Homebrew">
 <Notice type="danger">

The Teleport package in Homebrew is not maintained by Teleport and we can't
guarantee its reliability or security. We recommend the use of our [official
Teleport packages](https://goteleport.com/download). Binaries provided by Homebrew
are not signed by Teleport, so features that require signed and notarized binaries
(TouchID) are not available in Homebrew builds.

<ScopedBlock scope={["enterprise", "cloud"]}>

The Homebrew version of Teleport lacks the ability to maintain SAML/OIDC authentication
connectors through the `tctl` binary. We recommend installing the official Teleport Enterprise edition of `tctl`.

</ScopedBlock>

</Notice>

To install Teleport with Homebrew, run the following command:

```code
$ brew install teleport
```

If you choose to use Homebrew, you must verify that the versions of `tsh`
and `tctl` you run on your local machine are compatible with the versions
you run on your infrastructure. Homebrew usually ships the latest release of
Teleport, which may be incompatible with older versions. See our
[compatibility policy](./management/operations/upgrading.mdx) for details.

To verify versions, log in to your cluster and compare the output of `tctl status`
against `tsh version` and `tctl version`.

 </TabItem>
 </Tabs>
</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Enterprise" scope="enterprise">
  (!docs/pages/includes/enterprise/install-macos.mdx!)
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Cloud" scope="cloud">
  (!docs/pages/includes/enterprise/install-macos.mdx!)
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Windows (tsh client only)

(!docs/pages/includes/install-windows.mdx!)

## Building from source

Teleport is written in Go, and currently requires **go v(=teleport.golang=)** or
newer. Detailed instructions for building from source are available in the
[README](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport#building-teleport).


## Checksums

If you want to verify the integrity of a Teleport binary, SHA256 checksums are
available for all downloads on our
[downloads page](https://goteleport.com/download/).

![Teleport Checksum](../img/teleport-sha.png)

If you download Teleport via an automated system, you can programmatically
obtain the checksum by adding `.sha256` to the download link. This is the method
shown in the installation examples.

```code
$ export version=v(=teleport.version=)
# 'darwin' 'linux' or 'windows'
$ export os=linux
# '386' 'arm' on linux or 'amd64' for all distros
$ export arch=amd64
$ curl https://get.gravitational.com/teleport-$version-$os-$arch-bin.tar.gz.sha256
# <checksum> <filename>
```

## Uninstalling Teleport

If you wish to uninstall Teleport at any time, see our documentation on [Uninstalling Teleport](./management/admin/uninstall-teleport.mdx).

## Next steps

Now that you know how to install Teleport, you can enable access to all of your
infrastructure. Get started with:

- [Server Access](server-access/introduction.mdx)
- [Kubernetes Access](kubernetes-access/introduction.mdx)
- [Database Access](database-access/introduction.mdx)
- [Application Access](application-access/introduction.mdx)
- [Desktop Access](desktop-access/introduction.mdx)
- [Machine ID](machine-id/introduction.mdx)

Commit message:

docs: remove note about supporting any platform supporting Go (#28176)
There are several platforms (BSD, Solaris, Android, iOS, Plan 9)
where Go is supported, but Teleport is not.

Co-authored-by: Steven Martin <steven@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Installing Teleport
description: How to install Teleport and Teleport's client tools on your platform, including binaries and instructions for Docker and Helm.
h1: Installation
videoBanner: VifXROQFjwg
---

<Admonition type="tip" title="First time trying Teleport?">

If you are new to Teleport, we recommend following our
[getting started guides](./try-out-teleport/introduction.mdx).

</Admonition>

## Operating system support

Teleport is officially supported on the platforms listed below. It is worth
noting that the open-source community has been successful in building and
running Teleport on UNIX variants other than Linux \[1].

| Operating System | `teleport` Daemon | `tctl` Admin Tool | `tsh` and Teleport Connect User Clients [2] | Web UI (via the browser) | `tbot` Daemon |
| - | - | - | - | - | - |
| Linux v2.6.23+ (RHEL/CentOS 7+, Ubuntu 14.04+, and Debian 8+) \[3] | yes | yes | yes | yes | yes |
| macOS v10.13+  (High Sierra)| yes | yes | yes | yes | yes |
| Windows 10+ (rev. 1607) \[4] | no | no | yes | yes | no |

\[1] *Teleport is written in Go and many of these system requirements are due to the requirements
of the [Go toolchain](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/MinimumRequirements)*.

\[2] *`tsh` is a Command Line Client (CLI) and Teleport Connect is a Graphical User Interface (GUI) desktop client. See
  [Using Teleport Connect](connect-your-client/teleport-connect.mdx) for usage and installation*.
 
\[3] *Enhanced Session Recording requires Linux kernel v5.8+*.

\[4] *Teleport server does not run on Windows yet, but `tsh` and Teleport Connect (the Teleport desktop clients)
supports most features on Windows 10 and later.*

## Linux

All installations include `teleport`, `tsh`, `tctl`, and `tbot`.

(!docs/pages/includes/permission-warning.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

<ScopedBlock scope="oss">

<Details title="Using APT or YUM for versions prior to Teleport 10?" scopeOnly={false}>

If you've previously installed Teleport via the APT
repo at `https://deb.releases.teleport.dev/`, you can upgrade by
re-running the "Debian/Ubuntu (DEB)" install instructions above.

We will also continue to maintain the legacy APT repo at
`https://deb.releases.teleport.dev/` for the foreseeable future.

</Details>

Check the [Downloads](https://goteleport.com/download/) page for the most
up-to-date information.

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope="cloud">

Check the [Cloud Downloads](./choose-an-edition/teleport-cloud/downloads.mdx) page for the most up-to-date
information on obtaining Teleport binaries compatible with Teleport Cloud.

</ScopedBlock>

## Docker

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss"]} label="Open Source">
(!docs/pages/includes/docker-images-oss.mdx!)

For instructions on running containers with these images, see
[Getting started with Teleport using Docker](./management/guides/docker.mdx).

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise", "cloud"]} label="Commercial">

We provide pre-built `amd64`, `arm`, and `arm64` Docker images for every version of Teleport Enterprise.

(!docs/pages/includes/enterprise/docker-images.mdx!)

For instructions on running containers with these images, see
[Teleport Enterprise using Docker](./management/guides/docker.mdx).

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Helm

(!docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/helm-repo-add.mdx!)

There are two charts available to install. Please see our guide for using each
chart.

|Chart|Included Services|Values Reference|
|-|-|-|
|`teleport-cluster`|Auth Service<br/>Proxy Service<br/>Other Teleport services if using a custom configuration|[Reference](reference/helm-reference/teleport-cluster.mdx)
|`teleport-kube-agent`|Kubernetes Service<br/>Application Service<br/>Database Service|[Reference](reference/helm-reference/teleport-kube-agent.mdx)|


## macOS

<Tabs dropdownView dropdownCaption="Teleport Edition">
<TabItem label="Open Source" scope="oss">
  <Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Installer">

  You can download one of the following .pkg installers for macOS:

  |Link|Binaries|
  |-|-|
  |[`teleport-(=teleport.version=).pkg`](https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-(=teleport.version=).pkg)|`teleport`<br/>`tctl`<br/>`tsh`<br/>`tbot`|
  |[`tsh-(=teleport.version=).pkg`](https://cdn.teleport.dev/tsh-(=teleport.version=).pkg)|`tsh`|

  You can also fetch an installer via the command line:

  ```code
  $ curl -O https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-(=teleport.version=).pkg
  # Installs on Macintosh HD
  $ sudo installer -pkg teleport-(=teleport.version=).pkg -target /
  # Password:
  # installer: Package name is teleport-(=teleport.version=)
  # installer: Upgrading at base path /
  # installer: The upgrade was successful.
  $ which teleport
  # /usr/local/bin/teleport
  ```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="Homebrew">
 <Notice type="danger">

The Teleport package in Homebrew is not maintained by Teleport and we can't
guarantee its reliability or security. We recommend the use of our [official
Teleport packages](https://goteleport.com/download). Binaries provided by Homebrew
are not signed by Teleport, so features that require signed and notarized binaries
(TouchID) are not available in Homebrew builds.

<ScopedBlock scope={["enterprise", "cloud"]}>

The Homebrew version of Teleport lacks the ability to maintain SAML/OIDC authentication
connectors through the `tctl` binary. We recommend installing the official Teleport Enterprise edition of `tctl`.

</ScopedBlock>

</Notice>

To install Teleport with Homebrew, run the following command:

```code
$ brew install teleport
```

If you choose to use Homebrew, you must verify that the versions of `tsh`
and `tctl` you run on your local machine are compatible with the versions
you run on your infrastructure. Homebrew usually ships the latest release of
Teleport, which may be incompatible with older versions. See our
[compatibility policy](./management/operations/upgrading.mdx) for details.

To verify versions, log in to your cluster and compare the output of `tctl status`
against `tsh version` and `tctl version`.

 </TabItem>
 </Tabs>
</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Enterprise" scope="enterprise">
  (!docs/pages/includes/enterprise/install-macos.mdx!)
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Cloud" scope="cloud">
  (!docs/pages/includes/enterprise/install-macos.mdx!)
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Windows (tsh client only)

(!docs/pages/includes/install-windows.mdx!)

## Building from source

Teleport is written in Go, and currently requires **go v(=teleport.golang=)** or
newer. Detailed instructions for building from source are available in the
[README](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport#building-teleport).


## Checksums

If you want to verify the integrity of a Teleport binary, SHA256 checksums are
available for all downloads on our
[downloads page](https://goteleport.com/download/).

![Teleport Checksum](../img/teleport-sha.png)

If you download Teleport via an automated system, you can programmatically
obtain the checksum by adding `.sha256` to the download link. This is the method
shown in the installation examples.

```code
$ export version=v(=teleport.version=)
# 'darwin' 'linux' or 'windows'
$ export os=linux
# '386' 'arm' on linux or 'amd64' for all distros
$ export arch=amd64
$ curl https://get.gravitational.com/teleport-$version-$os-$arch-bin.tar.gz.sha256
# <checksum> <filename>
```

## Uninstalling Teleport

If you wish to uninstall Teleport at any time, see our documentation on [Uninstalling Teleport](./management/admin/uninstall-teleport.mdx).

## Next steps

Now that you know how to install Teleport, you can enable access to all of your
infrastructure. Get started with:

- [Server Access](server-access/introduction.mdx)
- [Kubernetes Access](kubernetes-access/introduction.mdx)
- [Database Access](database-access/introduction.mdx)
- [Application Access](application-access/introduction.mdx)
- [Desktop Access](desktop-access/introduction.mdx)
- [Machine ID](machine-id/introduction.mdx)
