docs/pages/access-controls/reference.mdx, before:

---
title: Access Controls Reference Documentation
description: This reference shows you the configuration settings that you can include in a Teleport role, which enables you to apply access controls for your infrastructure.
h1: Teleport Access Controls Reference
---

This guide shows you how to use Teleport roles to manage role-based access
controls (RBAC) in your Teleport cluster.

## Roles

A Teleport `role` works by having two lists of rules: `allow` rules and `deny` rules.
When declaring access rules, keep in mind the following:

- Nothing is allowed by default.
- Deny rules get evaluated first and take priority.

A rule consists of two parts: the resources and verbs. Here's an example of an
`allow` rule describing a `list` verb applied to the SSH `sessions` resource.  It means "allow
users of this role to see a list of active SSH sessions".

```yaml
allow:
  - resources: [session]
    verbs: [list]
```

If this rule was declared in the `deny` section of a role definition, it would
prohibit users from getting a list of active sessions. You can see all of the
available resources and verbs under the `allow` section in the example role
configuration below.

To manage cluster roles, a Teleport administrator can use the Web UI or the
command line using [tctl resource commands](../reference/resources.mdx).
To see the list of roles in a Teleport cluster, an administrator can execute:

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

```code
# Log in to your cluster with tsh so you can use tctl from your local machine.
# You can also run tctl on your Auth Service host without running "tsh login"
# first.
$ tsh login --user=myuser --proxy=teleport.example.com
$ tctl get roles
```

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

```code
# Log in to your cluster with tsh so you can use tctl.
$ tsh login --user=myuser --proxy=mytenant.teleport.sh
$ tctl get roles
```

</ScopedBlock>

(!docs/pages/includes/backup-warning.mdx!)

Here is a full role specification:

(!docs/pages/includes/role-spec.mdx!)

The following variables can be used with `logins` and `windows_desktop_logins` fields:

| Variable | Description |
| - | - |
| `{{internal.logins}}` | Substituted with a value stored in Teleport's local user database<br/>and logins from a root cluster. <br/><br/>For local users, Teleport will substitute this with the<br/>"allowed logins" parameter used in the<br/>`tctl users add [user] <allowed logins>` command. <br/><br/>If the role is within a leaf cluster in a [Trusted Cluster](../management/admin/trustedclusters.mdx),<br/>Teleport will substitute the logins from the root cluster<br/>whether the user is a local user or from an SSO provider. <br/><br/>As an example, if the user has the `ubuntu` login in the root<br/>cluster, then `ubuntu` will be substituted in the leaf<br/>cluster with this variable. |
| `{{external.xyz}}` | Substituted with a value from an external [SSO provider](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_sign-on).<br/>If using SAML, this will be expanded with "xyz" assertion value.<br/>For OIDC, this will be expanded a value of "xyz" claim. |

Both variables above are there to deliver the same benefit: they allow Teleport
administrators to define allowed OS logins via the user database, be it the
local DB, or an identity manager behind a SAML or OIDC endpoint.

### An example of a SAML assertion

Assuming you have the following SAML assertion attribute in your response:

```
<Attribute Name="http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/windowsaccountname">
        <AttributeValue>firstname.lastname</AttributeValue>
</Attribute>
```

... you can use the following format in your role:

```
logins:
   - '{{external["http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/windowsaccountname"]}}'
```

### Role options

As shown above, a role can define certain restrictions on sessions initiated by users.
The table below documents the behavior of each option if multiple roles are assigned to a user.

| Option | Description | Multi-role behavior |
| - | - | - |
| `max_session_ttl` | Max. time to live (TTL) of a user's SSH certificates | The shortest TTL wins |
| `forward_agent` | Allow SSH agent forwarding | Logical "OR" i.e. if any role allows agent forwarding, it's allowed |
| `port_forwarding` | Allow TCP port forwarding | Logical "OR" i.e. if any role allows port forwarding, it's allowed |
| `ssh_file_copy` | Allow SCP/SFTP | Logical "AND" i.e. if all roles allows file copying, it's allowed |
| `client_idle_timeout` | Forcefully terminate active sessions after an idle interval | The shortest timeout value wins, i.e. the most restrictive value is selected |
| `disconnect_expired_cert` | Forcefully terminate active sessions when a client certificate expires | Logical "OR" i.e. evaluates to "yes" if at least one role requires session termination |
| `max_sessions` | Total number of session channels which can be established across a single SSH connection via Teleport | |
| `enhanced_recording` | Indicates which events should be recorded by the BFP-based session recorder | |
| `permit_x11_forwarding` | Allow users to enable X11 forwarding with OpenSSH clients and servers | |
| `device_trust_mode` | Enforce authenticated device access for the owner of this role (`required`, `optional`, `off`) | |
| `require_session_mfa` | Enforce per-session MFA or PIV-hardware key restrictions on user login sessions (`no`, `yes`, `hardware_key`, `hardware_key_touch`) | For per-session MFA, Logical "OR" i.e. evaluates to "yes" if at least one role requires session MFA |
| `lock` | Locking mode (`strict` or `best_effort`) | `strict` wins in case of conflict |
| `request_access` | Enterprise-only Access Request strategy (`optional`, `always` or `reason`) | |
| `request_prompt` | Prompt for the Access Request "reason" field | |
| `max_connections` | Enterprise-only limit on how many concurrent sessions can be started via Teleport | |
| `max_kubernetes_connections` | Defines the maximum number of concurrent Kubernetes sessions per user | |
| `record_session` |Defines the [Session recording mode](../reference/audit.mdx#modes).|The strictest value takes precedence.|
| `desktop_clipboard` | Allow clipboard sharing for desktop sessions | Logical "AND" i.e. evaluates to "yes" if all roles enable clipboard sharing |
| `pin_source_ip` | Enable source IP pinning for SSH certificates. **Note:** IP pinning is currently in Preview mode | Logical "OR" i.e. evaluates to "yes" if at least one role requires session termination |
| `cert_extensions` | Specifies extensions to be included in SSH certificates | |
| `create_host_user` | Allow users to be automatically created on a host |  Logical "AND" i.e. evaluates to "yes" if all roles matching a Node enable host user creation |

## Preset roles

Teleport provides several pre-defined roles out-of-the-box:

| Role | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `editor` | Allows editing of cluster configuration settings. |
| `auditor`| Allows reading cluster events, audit logs, and playing back session records. |
| `access`| Allows access to cluster resources. |
| `requester`| Enterprise-only role that allows a user to create Access Requests. |
| `reviewer`| Enterprise-only role that allows review of Access Requests. |

### Role versions

There are currently four supported role versions: `v3`, `v4`, `v5` and `v6`. `v4`, `v5` and `v6` roles are
completely backwards-compatible with `v3`, the only difference lies in the
default values which will be applied to the role if they are not
explicitly set. Additionally, roles `v5` or `v6` are required to use [Moderated Sessions](./guides/moderated-sessions.mdx).

Label              | `v3` Default   | `v4`, `v5` and `v6` Default
------------------ | -------------- | ---------------
`node_labels`       | `[{"*": "*"}]` if the role has any logins, else `[]` | `[]`
`app_labels`        | `[{"*": "*"}]` | `[]`
`kubernetes_labels` | `[{"*": "*"}]` | `[]`
`database_labels`   | `[{"*": "*"}]` | `[]`

Role `v6` introduced a new field `kubernetes_resources` that allows
fine-grained control over Kubernetes resources. See [Kubernetes RBAC](../kubernetes-access/manage-access/rbac.mdx) for more details.

Label              | `v3`, `v4` and `v5` Default   | `v6` Default
------------------ | -------------- | ---------------
`kubernetes_resources` | `[{"kind":"pod", "name":"*", "namespace":"*"}]` | `[]`

## RBAC for resources

A Teleport role defines which resources (e.g., applications, servers, and
databases) a user can access.
This works by [labeling resources](../management/admin/labels.mdx) and
configuring allow/deny labels in a role definition.

Consider the following use case:

The infrastructure is split into staging/production environments using labels
like `environment=production` and `environment=staging`.
You can create roles that only have access to one environment.
Let's say you create an intern role with the allow rule for label `environment=staging`.

### Example

The role below allows access to all nodes labeled "env=stage" except those that
also have "workload=database" or "workload=backup".

Access to any other nodes will be denied.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: example-role
spec:
  allow:
    node_labels:
      'env': 'stage'

  deny:
    node_labels:
      # Multiple labels are interpreted as an "or" operation. In this case,
      # Teleport will deny access to any node labeled as 'workload=database' or
      # 'workload=backup'
      'workload': ['database', 'backup']
```

Teleport handles multiple label entries with logical "AND" operations.
As an example, this entry would match to databases that have the `env: prod`
label *and* a `region` label of either `us-west-1` or `eu-central-1`:

```yaml
    db_labels:
      'env': 'prod'
      'region': ['us-west-1', 'eu-central-1']
```

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Dynamic RBAC"
>
  Resource labels can be dynamic, i.e. determined at runtime by an output of an executable.
  In this case, you can implement "permissions follow workload"
  policies (eg., any server where PostgreSQL is running becomes *automatically*
  accessible only by the members of the "DBA" group and nobody else).
</Admonition>

### Extended label matching syntax

Below are a few examples for more complex filtering using various regexes.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: example-role
spec:
  allow:
    node_labels:
      # literal strings:
      'environment': 'test'
      # the wildcard ('*') means "any node"
      '*': '*'
      # a list of alternative options:
      'environment': ['test', 'staging']
      # regular expressions are also supported, for example the equivalent
      # of the list example above can be expressed as:
      'environment': '^test|staging$'
```

### Label expressions

<Admonition type="warning">
Label expressions are available starting in Teleport version `13.1.1`.
All components of your Teleport cluster must be upgraded to version `13.1.1`
or newer before you will be able to use label expressions.
This includes the Auth Service and **all** Teleport agents.
</Admonition>

Teleport roles also support matching resource labels with predicate expressions
when you need to:

- combine logic with OR and AND operators
- perform matching on label keys
- implement negative matches

The following example role would allow access to any nodes labeled `env=staging`
or labeled `team=<team>`, where `<team>` is one of the values of the user's
`teams` trait:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v6
metadata:
  name: example-role
spec:
  allow:
    node_labels_expression: |
      labels["env"] == "staging" ||
      contains(user.spec.traits["teams"], labels["team"])
```

The `<kind>_labels_expression` fields have the same purpose of the
matching `<kind>_labels` fields, but support predicate expressions instead
of label matchers.
They can be used in the following fields of role `spec.allow` and `spec.deny`
conditions:

- `node_labels_expression`
- `app_labels_expression`
- `cluster_labels_expression`
- `kubernetes_labels_expression`
- `db_labels_expression`
- `db_service_labels_expression`
- `windows_desktop_labels_expression`
- `group_labels_expression`

Check out our
[predicate language](../reference/predicate-language.mdx#label-expressions)
guide for a more in depth explanation of the language.

Typically you will only want to use one of `<kind>_labels` or
`<kind>_labels_expression` in a single role, but you are allowed to specify
both.
If you have both in a deny rule, the matching is greedy, if either one matches
access will be denied.
In an allow rule, the matching is not greedy, if both are set they both have to
match for access to be allowed.

## Teleport resources

RBAC lets teams limit what resources are available to Teleport users. This can be helpful if, for example,
you don't want regular users editing SSO (`auth_connector`) or creating and editing new roles
(`role`).

Below is an example `allow` section that illustrates commonly used `rules`.
Each rule includes a list of Teleport resources and the CRUD
operations that a user is allowed to execute on them:

```yaml
allow:
  rules:
    # CRUD options for managing Teleport Server Access Nodes
    - resources:
        - node
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    - resources:
        - app
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    - resources:
        - kube_service
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    - resources:
        - kube_cluster
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    - resources:
        - db
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    - resources:
        - windows_desktop
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    - resources:
        - role
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    # Auth connectors are also known as SSO connectors
    - resources:
        - auth_connector
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    # Session: Provides access to Session Recordings.
    # e.g If session read is false, users can't play the recordings
    # It is possible to restrict "list" but to allow "read" (in this case a user will
    # be able to replay a session using `tsh play` if they know the session ID).
    - resources:
        - session
      verbs: [list, read]
    - resources:
        - trusted_cluster
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    # Events: Determines whether a user can view the audit log
    # and session recordings.
    - resources:
        - event
      verbs: [list, read]
    - resources:
        - user
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    - resources:
        - token
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]

```

## RBAC for sessions

It is possible to further limit access to
[shared sessions](../connect-your-client/tsh.mdx#sharing-sessions) and
[session recordings](../architecture/nodes.mdx#ssh-session-recording).
The examples below illustrate how to restrict session access only for the user
who created the session.

<Details title="Version Warning: Before 8.1">
Teleport versions prior to 8.1 don't support the roles shown below.
You may create these roles after upgrading, but in the event of a cluster
downgrade they will become invalid.
</Details>

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Preset Auditor Role"
>
In order for these roles to take effect, you must ensure your user doesn't also
have a more permissive role, like the preset `auditor` role, which allows access
to all events, sessions, and session recordings.
</Admonition>

Role for restricted access to session recordings:

```yaml
version: v5
kind: role
metadata:
  name: only-own-sessions
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    # Users can only view session recordings for sessions in which they
    # participated.
    - resources: [session]
      verbs: [list, read]
      where: contains(session.participants, user.metadata.name)
```

Role for restricted access to active sessions:

```yaml
version: v5
kind: role
metadata:
  name: only-own-ssh-sessions
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    # Teleport allows shared session access by default, so for our restrictions
    # to work we first allow access to ssh_sessions...
    - resources: [ssh_session]
      verbs: ['*']
  deny:
    rules:
    # ... and then limit that access via a deny rule.
    # Deny rules take precedence over allow rules, so the resulting role allows
    # users to create SSH sessions but to only view their own sessions.
    - resources: [ssh_session]
      verbs: [list, read, update, delete]
      where: '!contains(ssh_session.participants, user.metadata.name)'
```

## Second Factor - U2F

Refer to the [Second Factor - WebAuthn](./guides/webauthn.mdx#u2f) guide if you
have a cluster using the legacy U2F support.

## Filter fields

Here is an explanation of the fields used in the `where` and `filter` conditions within this guide.

| Field                      | Description                                       |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `user.spec.roles`          | The list of roles assigned to a user              |
| `session.participants`     | The list of participants from a session recording |
| `ssh_session.participants` | The list of participants from an SSH session      |
| `user.metadata.name`       | The user's name                                   |

Check out our [predicate language](../reference/predicate-language.mdx#scoping-allowdeny-rules-in-role-resources)
guide for a more in depth explanation of the language.

Commit message:

Document create_host_user_mode

docs/pages/access-controls/reference.mdx, after:

---
title: Access Controls Reference Documentation
description: This reference shows you the configuration settings that you can include in a Teleport role, which enables you to apply access controls for your infrastructure.
h1: Teleport Access Controls Reference
---

This guide shows you how to use Teleport roles to manage role-based access
controls (RBAC) in your Teleport cluster.

## Roles

A Teleport `role` works by having two lists of rules: `allow` rules and `deny` rules.
When declaring access rules, keep in mind the following:

- Nothing is allowed by default.
- Deny rules get evaluated first and take priority.

A rule consists of two parts: the resources and verbs. Here's an example of an
`allow` rule describing a `list` verb applied to the SSH `sessions` resource.  It means "allow
users of this role to see a list of active SSH sessions".

```yaml
allow:
  - resources: [session]
    verbs: [list]
```

If this rule was declared in the `deny` section of a role definition, it would
prohibit users from getting a list of active sessions. You can see all of the
available resources and verbs under the `allow` section in the example role
configuration below.

To manage cluster roles, a Teleport administrator can use the Web UI or the
command line using [tctl resource commands](../reference/resources.mdx).
To see the list of roles in a Teleport cluster, an administrator can execute:

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

```code
# Log in to your cluster with tsh so you can use tctl from your local machine.
# You can also run tctl on your Auth Service host without running "tsh login"
# first.
$ tsh login --user=myuser --proxy=teleport.example.com
$ tctl get roles
```

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

```code
# Log in to your cluster with tsh so you can use tctl.
$ tsh login --user=myuser --proxy=mytenant.teleport.sh
$ tctl get roles
```

</ScopedBlock>

(!docs/pages/includes/backup-warning.mdx!)

Here is a full role specification:

(!docs/pages/includes/role-spec.mdx!)

The following variables can be used with `logins` and `windows_desktop_logins` fields:

| Variable | Description |
| - | - |
| `{{internal.logins}}` | Substituted with a value stored in Teleport's local user database<br/>and logins from a root cluster. <br/><br/>For local users, Teleport will substitute this with the<br/>"allowed logins" parameter used in the<br/>`tctl users add [user] <allowed logins>` command. <br/><br/>If the role is within a leaf cluster in a [Trusted Cluster](../management/admin/trustedclusters.mdx),<br/>Teleport will substitute the logins from the root cluster<br/>whether the user is a local user or from an SSO provider. <br/><br/>As an example, if the user has the `ubuntu` login in the root<br/>cluster, then `ubuntu` will be substituted in the leaf<br/>cluster with this variable. |
| `{{external.xyz}}` | Substituted with a value from an external [SSO provider](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_sign-on).<br/>If using SAML, this will be expanded with "xyz" assertion value.<br/>For OIDC, this will be expanded a value of "xyz" claim. |

Both variables above are there to deliver the same benefit: they allow Teleport
administrators to define allowed OS logins via the user database, be it the
local DB, or an identity manager behind a SAML or OIDC endpoint.

### An example of a SAML assertion

Assuming you have the following SAML assertion attribute in your response:

```
<Attribute Name="http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/windowsaccountname">
        <AttributeValue>firstname.lastname</AttributeValue>
</Attribute>
```

... you can use the following format in your role:

```
logins:
   - '{{external["http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/windowsaccountname"]}}'
```

### Role options

As shown above, a role can define certain restrictions on sessions initiated by users.
The table below documents the behavior of each option if multiple roles are assigned to a user.

| Option | Description | Multi-role behavior |
| - | - | - |
| `max_session_ttl` | Max. time to live (TTL) of a user's SSH certificates | The shortest TTL wins |
| `forward_agent` | Allow SSH agent forwarding | Logical "OR" i.e. if any role allows agent forwarding, it's allowed |
| `port_forwarding` | Allow TCP port forwarding | Logical "OR" i.e. if any role allows port forwarding, it's allowed |
| `ssh_file_copy` | Allow SCP/SFTP | Logical "AND" i.e. if all roles allows file copying, it's allowed |
| `client_idle_timeout` | Forcefully terminate active sessions after an idle interval | The shortest timeout value wins, i.e. the most restrictive value is selected |
| `disconnect_expired_cert` | Forcefully terminate active sessions when a client certificate expires | Logical "OR" i.e. evaluates to "yes" if at least one role requires session termination |
| `max_sessions` | Total number of session channels which can be established across a single SSH connection via Teleport | |
| `enhanced_recording` | Indicates which events should be recorded by the BFP-based session recorder | |
| `permit_x11_forwarding` | Allow users to enable X11 forwarding with OpenSSH clients and servers | |
| `device_trust_mode` | Enforce authenticated device access for the owner of this role (`required`, `optional`, `off`) | |
| `require_session_mfa` | Enforce per-session MFA or PIV-hardware key restrictions on user login sessions (`no`, `yes`, `hardware_key`, `hardware_key_touch`) | For per-session MFA, Logical "OR" i.e. evaluates to "yes" if at least one role requires session MFA |
| `lock` | Locking mode (`strict` or `best_effort`) | `strict` wins in case of conflict |
| `request_access` | Enterprise-only Access Request strategy (`optional`, `always` or `reason`) | |
| `request_prompt` | Prompt for the Access Request "reason" field | |
| `max_connections` | Enterprise-only limit on how many concurrent sessions can be started via Teleport | |
| `max_kubernetes_connections` | Defines the maximum number of concurrent Kubernetes sessions per user | |
| `record_session` |Defines the [Session recording mode](../reference/audit.mdx#modes).|The strictest value takes precedence.|
| `desktop_clipboard` | Allow clipboard sharing for desktop sessions | Logical "AND" i.e. evaluates to "yes" if all roles enable clipboard sharing |
| `pin_source_ip` | Enable source IP pinning for SSH certificates. **Note:** IP pinning is currently in Preview mode | Logical "OR" i.e. evaluates to "yes" if at least one role requires session termination |
| `cert_extensions` | Specifies extensions to be included in SSH certificates | |
| `create_host_user_mode` | Allow users to be automatically created on a host |  Logical "AND" i.e. if all roles matching a Node specify host user creation (`off`, `drop`, `keep`), it will evaluate to the option specified by all of the roles, if some roles specify both `drop` or `keep` it will evaluate to `keep`|

## Preset roles

Teleport provides several pre-defined roles out-of-the-box:

| Role | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `editor` | Allows editing of cluster configuration settings. |
| `auditor`| Allows reading cluster events, audit logs, and playing back session records. |
| `access`| Allows access to cluster resources. |
| `requester`| Enterprise-only role that allows a user to create Access Requests. |
| `reviewer`| Enterprise-only role that allows review of Access Requests. |

### Role versions

There are currently four supported role versions: `v3`, `v4`, `v5` and `v6`. `v4`, `v5` and `v6` roles are
completely backwards-compatible with `v3`, the only difference lies in the
default values which will be applied to the role if they are not
explicitly set. Additionally, roles `v5` or `v6` are required to use [Moderated Sessions](./guides/moderated-sessions.mdx).

Label              | `v3` Default   | `v4`, `v5` and `v6` Default
------------------ | -------------- | ---------------
`node_labels`       | `[{"*": "*"}]` if the role has any logins, else `[]` | `[]`
`app_labels`        | `[{"*": "*"}]` | `[]`
`kubernetes_labels` | `[{"*": "*"}]` | `[]`
`database_labels`   | `[{"*": "*"}]` | `[]`

Role `v6` introduced a new field `kubernetes_resources` that allows
fine-grained control over Kubernetes resources. See [Kubernetes RBAC](../kubernetes-access/manage-access/rbac.mdx) for more details.

Label              | `v3`, `v4` and `v5` Default   | `v6` Default
------------------ | -------------- | ---------------
`kubernetes_resources` | `[{"kind":"pod", "name":"*", "namespace":"*"}]` | `[]`

## RBAC for resources

A Teleport role defines which resources (e.g., applications, servers, and
databases) a user can access.
This works by [labeling resources](../management/admin/labels.mdx) and
configuring allow/deny labels in a role definition.

Consider the following use case:

The infrastructure is split into staging/production environments using labels
like `environment=production` and `environment=staging`.
You can create roles that only have access to one environment.
Let's say you create an intern role with the allow rule for label `environment=staging`.

### Example

The role below allows access to all nodes labeled "env=stage" except those that
also have "workload=database" or "workload=backup".

Access to any other nodes will be denied.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: example-role
spec:
  allow:
    node_labels:
      'env': 'stage'

  deny:
    node_labels:
      # Multiple labels are interpreted as an "or" operation. In this case,
      # Teleport will deny access to any node labeled as 'workload=database' or
      # 'workload=backup'
      'workload': ['database', 'backup']
```

Teleport handles multiple label entries with logical "AND" operations.
As an example, this entry would match to databases that have the `env: prod`
label *and* a `region` label of either `us-west-1` or `eu-central-1`:

```yaml
    db_labels:
      'env': 'prod'
      'region': ['us-west-1', 'eu-central-1']
```

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Dynamic RBAC"
>
  Resource labels can be dynamic, i.e. determined at runtime by an output of an executable.
  In this case, you can implement "permissions follow workload"
  policies (eg., any server where PostgreSQL is running becomes *automatically*
  accessible only by the members of the "DBA" group and nobody else).
</Admonition>

### Extended label matching syntax

Below are a few examples for more complex filtering using various regexes.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: example-role
spec:
  allow:
    node_labels:
      # literal strings:
      'environment': 'test'
      # the wildcard ('*') means "any node"
      '*': '*'
      # a list of alternative options:
      'environment': ['test', 'staging']
      # regular expressions are also supported, for example the equivalent
      # of the list example above can be expressed as:
      'environment': '^test|staging$'
```

### Label expressions

<Admonition type="warning">
Label expressions are available starting in Teleport version `13.1.1`.
All components of your Teleport cluster must be upgraded to version `13.1.1`
or newer before you will be able to use label expressions.
This includes the Auth Service and **all** Teleport agents.
</Admonition>

Teleport roles also support matching resource labels with predicate expressions
when you need to:

- combine logic with OR and AND operators
- perform matching on label keys
- implement negative matches

The following example role would allow access to any nodes labeled `env=staging`
or labeled `team=<team>`, where `<team>` is one of the values of the user's
`teams` trait:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v6
metadata:
  name: example-role
spec:
  allow:
    node_labels_expression: |
      labels["env"] == "staging" ||
      contains(user.spec.traits["teams"], labels["team"])
```

The `<kind>_labels_expression` fields have the same purpose of the
matching `<kind>_labels` fields, but support predicate expressions instead
of label matchers.
They can be used in the following fields of role `spec.allow` and `spec.deny`
conditions:

- `node_labels_expression`
- `app_labels_expression`
- `cluster_labels_expression`
- `kubernetes_labels_expression`
- `db_labels_expression`
- `db_service_labels_expression`
- `windows_desktop_labels_expression`
- `group_labels_expression`

Check out our
[predicate language](../reference/predicate-language.mdx#label-expressions)
guide for a more in depth explanation of the language.

Typically you will only want to use one of `<kind>_labels` or
`<kind>_labels_expression` in a single role, but you are allowed to specify
both.
If you have both in a deny rule, the matching is greedy, if either one matches
access will be denied.
In an allow rule, the matching is not greedy, if both are set they both have to
match for access to be allowed.

## Teleport resources

RBAC lets teams limit what resources are available to Teleport users. This can be helpful if, for example,
you don't want regular users editing SSO (`auth_connector`) or creating and editing new roles
(`role`).

Below is an example `allow` section that illustrates commonly used `rules`.
Each rule includes a list of Teleport resources and the CRUD
operations that a user is allowed to execute on them:

```yaml
allow:
  rules:
    # CRUD options for managing Teleport Server Access Nodes
    - resources:
        - node
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    - resources:
        - app
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    - resources:
        - kube_service
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    - resources:
        - kube_cluster
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    - resources:
        - db
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    - resources:
        - windows_desktop
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    - resources:
        - role
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    # Auth connectors are also known as SSO connectors
    - resources:
        - auth_connector
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    # Session: Provides access to Session Recordings.
    # e.g If session read is false, users can't play the recordings
    # It is possible to restrict "list" but to allow "read" (in this case a user will
    # be able to replay a session using `tsh play` if they know the session ID).
    - resources:
        - session
      verbs: [list, read]
    - resources:
        - trusted_cluster
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    # Events: Determines whether a user can view the audit log
    # and session recordings.
    - resources:
        - event
      verbs: [list, read]
    - resources:
        - user
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
    - resources:
        - token
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]

```

## RBAC for sessions

It is possible to further limit access to
[shared sessions](../connect-your-client/tsh.mdx#sharing-sessions) and
[session recordings](../architecture/nodes.mdx#ssh-session-recording).
The examples below illustrate how to restrict session access only for the user
who created the session.

<Details title="Version Warning: Before 8.1">
Teleport versions prior to 8.1 don't support the roles shown below.
You may create these roles after upgrading, but in the event of a cluster
downgrade they will become invalid.
</Details>

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Preset Auditor Role"
>
In order for these roles to take effect, you must ensure your user doesn't also
have a more permissive role, like the preset `auditor` role, which allows access
to all events, sessions, and session recordings.
</Admonition>

Role for restricted access to session recordings:

```yaml
version: v5
kind: role
metadata:
  name: only-own-sessions
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    # Users can only view session recordings for sessions in which they
    # participated.
    - resources: [session]
      verbs: [list, read]
      where: contains(session.participants, user.metadata.name)
```

Role for restricted access to active sessions:

```yaml
version: v5
kind: role
metadata:
  name: only-own-ssh-sessions
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    # Teleport allows shared session access by default, so for our restrictions
    # to work we first allow access to ssh_sessions...
    - resources: [ssh_session]
      verbs: ['*']
  deny:
    rules:
    # ... and then limit that access via a deny rule.
    # Deny rules take precedence over allow rules, so the resulting role allows
    # users to create SSH sessions but to only view their own sessions.
    - resources: [ssh_session]
      verbs: [list, read, update, delete]
      where: '!contains(ssh_session.participants, user.metadata.name)'
```

## Second Factor - U2F

Refer to the [Second Factor - WebAuthn](./guides/webauthn.mdx#u2f) guide if you
have a cluster using the legacy U2F support.

## Filter fields

Here is an explanation of the fields used in the `where` and `filter` conditions within this guide.

| Field                      | Description                                       |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `user.spec.roles`          | The list of roles assigned to a user              |
| `session.participants`     | The list of participants from a session recording |
| `ssh_session.participants` | The list of participants from an SSH session      |
| `user.metadata.name`       | The user's name                                   |

Check out our [predicate language](../reference/predicate-language.mdx#scoping-allowdeny-rules-in-role-resources)
guide for a more in depth explanation of the language.
