docs/pages/reference/terraform-provider/resources/github_connector.mdx, before:

---
title: Reference for the teleport_github_connector Terraform resource
description: This page describes the supported values of the teleport_github_connector resource of the Teleport Terraform provider.
---

{/*Auto-generated file. Do not edit.*/}
{/*To regenerate, navigate to integrations/terraform and run `make docs`.*/}



## Example Usage

```hcl
# Terraform Github connector

variable "github_secret" {}

resource "teleport_github_connector" "github" {
  # This section tells Terraform that role example must be created before the GitHub connector
  depends_on = [
    teleport_role.example
  ]

  metadata = {
    name = "example"
    labels = {
      example = "yes"
    }
  }

  spec = {
    client_id     = "client"
    client_secret = var.github_secret

    teams_to_roles = [{
      organization = "gravitational"
      team         = "devs"
      roles        = ["example"]
    }]
  }
}
```

{/*  schema generated by tfplugindocs */}
## Schema

### Required

- `spec` (Attributes) Spec is an Github connector specification. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-spec))
- `version` (String) Version is the resource version. It must be specified. Supported values are: `v3`.

### Optional

- `metadata` (Attributes) Metadata holds resource metadata. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-metadata))
- `sub_kind` (String) SubKind is an optional resource sub kind, used in some resources.

### Nested Schema for `spec`

Required:

- `client_id` (String) ClientID is the Github OAuth app client ID.
- `client_secret` (String, Sensitive) ClientSecret is the Github OAuth app client secret.

Optional:

- `api_endpoint_url` (String) APIEndpointURL is the URL of the API endpoint of the Github instance this connector is for.
- `client_redirect_settings` (Attributes) ClientRedirectSettings defines which client redirect URLs are allowed for non-browser SSO logins other than the standard localhost ones. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specclient_redirect_settings))
- `display` (String) Display is the connector display name.
- `endpoint_url` (String) EndpointURL is the URL of the GitHub instance this connector is for.
- `redirect_url` (String) RedirectURL is the authorization callback URL.
- `teams_to_logins` (Attributes List) TeamsToLogins maps Github team memberships onto allowed logins/roles.  DELETE IN 11.0.0 Deprecated: use GithubTeamsToRoles instead. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specteams_to_logins))
- `teams_to_roles` (Attributes List) TeamsToRoles maps Github team memberships onto allowed roles. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specteams_to_roles))

### Nested Schema for `spec.client_redirect_settings`

Optional:

- `allowed_https_hostnames` (List of String) a list of hostnames allowed for https client redirect URLs


### Nested Schema for `spec.teams_to_logins`

Optional:

- `kubernetes_groups` (List of String) KubeGroups is a list of allowed kubernetes groups for this org/team.
- `kubernetes_users` (List of String) KubeUsers is a list of allowed kubernetes users to impersonate for this org/team.
- `logins` (List of String) Logins is a list of allowed logins for this org/team.
- `organization` (String) Organization is a Github organization a user belongs to.
- `team` (String) Team is a team within the organization a user belongs to.


### Nested Schema for `spec.teams_to_roles`

Optional:

- `organization` (String) Organization is a Github organization a user belongs to.
- `roles` (List of String) Roles is a list of allowed logins for this org/team.
- `team` (String) Team is a team within the organization a user belongs to.



### Nested Schema for `metadata`

Required:

- `name` (String) Name is an object name

Optional:

- `description` (String) Description is object description
- `expires` (String) Expires is a global expiry time header can be set on any resource in the system.
- `labels` (Map of String) Labels is a set of labels

Commit message:

add option to allow client redirects from IPs in specified CIDR ranges in SSO client logins

docs/pages/reference/terraform-provider/resources/github_connector.mdx, after:

---
title: Reference for the teleport_github_connector Terraform resource
description: This page describes the supported values of the teleport_github_connector resource of the Teleport Terraform provider.
---

{/*Auto-generated file. Do not edit.*/}
{/*To regenerate, navigate to integrations/terraform and run `make docs`.*/}



## Example Usage

```hcl
# Terraform Github connector

variable "github_secret" {}

resource "teleport_github_connector" "github" {
  # This section tells Terraform that role example must be created before the GitHub connector
  depends_on = [
    teleport_role.example
  ]

  metadata = {
    name = "example"
    labels = {
      example = "yes"
    }
  }

  spec = {
    client_id     = "client"
    client_secret = var.github_secret

    teams_to_roles = [{
      organization = "gravitational"
      team         = "devs"
      roles        = ["example"]
    }]
  }
}
```

{/*  schema generated by tfplugindocs */}
## Schema

### Required

- `spec` (Attributes) Spec is an Github connector specification. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-spec))
- `version` (String) Version is the resource version. It must be specified. Supported values are: `v3`.

### Optional

- `metadata` (Attributes) Metadata holds resource metadata. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-metadata))
- `sub_kind` (String) SubKind is an optional resource sub kind, used in some resources.

### Nested Schema for `spec`

Required:

- `client_id` (String) ClientID is the Github OAuth app client ID.
- `client_secret` (String, Sensitive) ClientSecret is the Github OAuth app client secret.

Optional:

- `api_endpoint_url` (String) APIEndpointURL is the URL of the API endpoint of the Github instance this connector is for.
- `client_redirect_settings` (Attributes) ClientRedirectSettings defines which client redirect URLs are allowed for non-browser SSO logins other than the standard localhost ones. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specclient_redirect_settings))
- `display` (String) Display is the connector display name.
- `endpoint_url` (String) EndpointURL is the URL of the GitHub instance this connector is for.
- `redirect_url` (String) RedirectURL is the authorization callback URL.
- `teams_to_logins` (Attributes List) TeamsToLogins maps Github team memberships onto allowed logins/roles.  DELETE IN 11.0.0 Deprecated: use GithubTeamsToRoles instead. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specteams_to_logins))
- `teams_to_roles` (Attributes List) TeamsToRoles maps Github team memberships onto allowed roles. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specteams_to_roles))

### Nested Schema for `spec.client_redirect_settings`

Optional:

- `allowed_https_hostnames` (List of String) a list of hostnames allowed for https client redirect URLs
- `insecure_allowed_cidr_ranges` (List of String) a list of CIDRs allowed for HTTP or HTTPS client redirect URLs


### Nested Schema for `spec.teams_to_logins`

Optional:

- `kubernetes_groups` (List of String) KubeGroups is a list of allowed kubernetes groups for this org/team.
- `kubernetes_users` (List of String) KubeUsers is a list of allowed kubernetes users to impersonate for this org/team.
- `logins` (List of String) Logins is a list of allowed logins for this org/team.
- `organization` (String) Organization is a Github organization a user belongs to.
- `team` (String) Team is a team within the organization a user belongs to.


### Nested Schema for `spec.teams_to_roles`

Optional:

- `organization` (String) Organization is a Github organization a user belongs to.
- `roles` (List of String) Roles is a list of allowed logins for this org/team.
- `team` (String) Team is a team within the organization a user belongs to.



### Nested Schema for `metadata`

Required:

- `name` (String) Name is an object name

Optional:

- `description` (String) Description is object description
- `expires` (String) Expires is a global expiry time header can be set on any resource in the system.
- `labels` (Map of String) Labels is a set of labels
