docs/pages/reference/terraform-provider/data-sources.mdx, before:

---
title: "Terraform data-sources index"
description: "Index of all the data-sources supported by the Teleport Terraform Provider"
---

{/*
    This file will be renamed data-sources.mdx during build time.
    The template name is reserved by tfplugindocs so we suffix with -index.
*/}

The Teleport Terraform provider supports the following data-sources:

  - [`teleport_access_list`](./data-sources/access_list.mdx)
  - [`teleport_app`](./data-sources/app.mdx)
  - [`teleport_auth_preference`](./data-sources/auth_preference.mdx)
  - [`teleport_cluster_maintenance_config`](./data-sources/cluster_maintenance_config.mdx)
  - [`teleport_cluster_networking_config`](./data-sources/cluster_networking_config.mdx)
  - [`teleport_database`](./data-sources/database.mdx)
  - [`teleport_github_connector`](./data-sources/github_connector.mdx)
  - [`teleport_login_rule`](./data-sources/login_rule.mdx)
  - [`teleport_oidc_connector`](./data-sources/oidc_connector.mdx)
  - [`teleport_okta_import_rule`](./data-sources/okta_import_rule.mdx)
  - [`teleport_provision_token`](./data-sources/provision_token.mdx)
  - [`teleport_role`](./data-sources/role.mdx)
  - [`teleport_saml_connector`](./data-sources/saml_connector.mdx)
  - [`teleport_session_recording_config`](./data-sources/session_recording_config.mdx)
  - [`teleport_trusted_cluster`](./data-sources/trusted_cluster.mdx)
  - [`teleport_trusted_device`](./data-sources/trusted_device.mdx)
  - [`teleport_user`](./data-sources/user.mdx)

Commit message:

Explicit that TF reference is generated (#44667) (#44688)
* Add comment warning that tf ref is generated

* trigger CI on TF ref changes

docs/pages/reference/terraform-provider/data-sources.mdx, after:

---
title: "Terraform data-sources index"
description: "Index of all the data-sources supported by the Teleport Terraform Provider"
---

{/*Auto-generated file. Do not edit.*/}
{/*To regenerate, navigate to integrations/terraform and run `make docs`.*/}

{/*
    This file will be renamed data-sources.mdx during build time.
    The template name is reserved by tfplugindocs so we suffix with -index.
*/}

The Teleport Terraform provider supports the following data-sources:

  - [`teleport_access_list`](./data-sources/access_list.mdx)
  - [`teleport_app`](./data-sources/app.mdx)
  - [`teleport_auth_preference`](./data-sources/auth_preference.mdx)
  - [`teleport_cluster_maintenance_config`](./data-sources/cluster_maintenance_config.mdx)
  - [`teleport_cluster_networking_config`](./data-sources/cluster_networking_config.mdx)
  - [`teleport_database`](./data-sources/database.mdx)
  - [`teleport_github_connector`](./data-sources/github_connector.mdx)
  - [`teleport_login_rule`](./data-sources/login_rule.mdx)
  - [`teleport_oidc_connector`](./data-sources/oidc_connector.mdx)
  - [`teleport_okta_import_rule`](./data-sources/okta_import_rule.mdx)
  - [`teleport_provision_token`](./data-sources/provision_token.mdx)
  - [`teleport_role`](./data-sources/role.mdx)
  - [`teleport_saml_connector`](./data-sources/saml_connector.mdx)
  - [`teleport_session_recording_config`](./data-sources/session_recording_config.mdx)
  - [`teleport_trusted_cluster`](./data-sources/trusted_cluster.mdx)
  - [`teleport_trusted_device`](./data-sources/trusted_device.mdx)
  - [`teleport_user`](./data-sources/user.mdx)
