docs/pages/reference/terraform-provider/resources.mdx, before:

---
title: "Terraform resources index"
description: "Index of all the datasources supported by the Teleport Terraform Provider"
---

{/*
    This file will be renamed data-sources.mdx during build time.
    The template name is reserved by tfplugindocs so we suffix with -index.
*/}

The Teleport Terraform provider supports the following resources:

  - [`teleport_access_list`](./resources/access_list.mdx)
  - [`teleport_app`](./resources/app.mdx)
  - [`teleport_auth_preference`](./resources/auth_preference.mdx)
  - [`teleport_bot`](./resources/bot.mdx)
  - [`teleport_cluster_maintenance_config`](./resources/cluster_maintenance_config.mdx)
  - [`teleport_cluster_networking_config`](./resources/cluster_networking_config.mdx)
  - [`teleport_database`](./resources/database.mdx)
  - [`teleport_github_connector`](./resources/github_connector.mdx)
  - [`teleport_login_rule`](./resources/login_rule.mdx)
  - [`teleport_oidc_connector`](./resources/oidc_connector.mdx)
  - [`teleport_okta_import_rule`](./resources/okta_import_rule.mdx)
  - [`teleport_provision_token`](./resources/provision_token.mdx)
  - [`teleport_role`](./resources/role.mdx)
  - [`teleport_saml_connector`](./resources/saml_connector.mdx)
  - [`teleport_server`](./resources/server.mdx)
  - [`teleport_session_recording_config`](./resources/session_recording_config.mdx)
  - [`teleport_trusted_cluster`](./resources/trusted_cluster.mdx)
  - [`teleport_trusted_device`](./resources/trusted_device.mdx)
  - [`teleport_user`](./resources/user.mdx)

Commit message:

Add comment warning that tf ref is generated

docs/pages/reference/terraform-provider/resources.mdx, after:

---
title: "Terraform resources index"
description: "Index of all the datasources supported by the Teleport Terraform Provider"
---

{/*Auto-generated file. Do not edit.*/}
{/*To regenerate, navigate to integrations/terraform and run `make docs`.*/}

{/*
    This file will be renamed data-sources.mdx during build time.
    The template name is reserved by tfplugindocs so we suffix with -index.
*/}

The Teleport Terraform provider supports the following resources:

  - [`teleport_access_list`](./resources/access_list.mdx)
  - [`teleport_app`](./resources/app.mdx)
  - [`teleport_auth_preference`](./resources/auth_preference.mdx)
  - [`teleport_bot`](./resources/bot.mdx)
  - [`teleport_cluster_maintenance_config`](./resources/cluster_maintenance_config.mdx)
  - [`teleport_cluster_networking_config`](./resources/cluster_networking_config.mdx)
  - [`teleport_database`](./resources/database.mdx)
  - [`teleport_github_connector`](./resources/github_connector.mdx)
  - [`teleport_login_rule`](./resources/login_rule.mdx)
  - [`teleport_oidc_connector`](./resources/oidc_connector.mdx)
  - [`teleport_okta_import_rule`](./resources/okta_import_rule.mdx)
  - [`teleport_provision_token`](./resources/provision_token.mdx)
  - [`teleport_role`](./resources/role.mdx)
  - [`teleport_saml_connector`](./resources/saml_connector.mdx)
  - [`teleport_server`](./resources/server.mdx)
  - [`teleport_session_recording_config`](./resources/session_recording_config.mdx)
  - [`teleport_trusted_cluster`](./resources/trusted_cluster.mdx)
  - [`teleport_trusted_device`](./resources/trusted_device.mdx)
  - [`teleport_user`](./resources/user.mdx)
