docs/pages/enroll-resources/agents/join-services-to-your-cluster/join-services-to-your-cluster.mdx, before:

---
title: Join Services to your Teleport Cluster
description: How to register the Proxy Service, Database Service, and other Teleport services with your cluster.
---

A **Teleport service** manages access to resources in your infrastructure, such
as Kubernetes clusters, Windows desktops, internal web applications, and
databases. A single **Teleport process** can run multiple Teleport services.

There are multiple methods you can use to join a Teleport process to your
cluster in order to run Teleport services, including an instance of the Proxy
Service. Choose the method that best suits your infrastructure:

|Method|Description|When to use|
|------|-----------|-----------|
|[EC2 Identity Document](aws-ec2.mdx)|A Teleport process running on an EC2 instance authenticates to your cluster via a signed EC2 instance identity document.|Your Teleport process will run on EC2 and your Teleport cluster is self hosted.|
|[AWS IAM](aws-iam.mdx)|A Teleport process uses AWS credentials to join the cluster, whether running on EC2 or not.|At least some of your infrastructure runs on AWS.|
|[Azure Managed Identity](azure.mdx)|A Teleport process demonstrates that it runs in your Azure subscription by sending a signed attested data document and access token to the Teleport Auth Service.|Your Teleport process will run on Azure.|
|[Kubernetes ServiceAccount](kubernetes.mdx)|A Teleport process uses a Kubernetes-signed proof to establish a trust relationship with your Teleport cluster.|Your Teleport process will run on Kubernetes.|
|[GCP IAM](gcp.mdx)|A Teleport process uses a GCP-signed token to establish a trust relationship with your Teleport cluster.|Your Teleport process will run on a GCP VM.|
|[Join Token](join-token.mdx)|A Teleport process presents a join token provided when starting the service.|There is no other supported method for your cloud provider.|

Commit message:

Oracle join method - Add docs (#51936)
This change adds documentation for the Oracle join method

docs/pages/enroll-resources/agents/join-services-to-your-cluster/join-services-to-your-cluster.mdx, after:

---
title: Join Services to your Teleport Cluster
description: How to register the Proxy Service, Database Service, and other Teleport services with your cluster.
---

A **Teleport service** manages access to resources in your infrastructure, such
as Kubernetes clusters, Windows desktops, internal web applications, and
databases. A single **Teleport process** can run multiple Teleport services.

There are multiple methods you can use to join a Teleport process to your
cluster in order to run Teleport services, including an instance of the Proxy
Service. Choose the method that best suits your infrastructure:

|Method|Description|When to use|
|------|-----------|-----------|
|[EC2 Identity Document](aws-ec2.mdx)|A Teleport process running on an EC2 instance authenticates to your cluster via a signed EC2 instance identity document.|Your Teleport process will run on EC2 and your Teleport cluster is self hosted.|
|[AWS IAM](aws-iam.mdx)|A Teleport process uses AWS credentials to join the cluster, whether running on EC2 or not.|At least some of your infrastructure runs on AWS.|
|[Azure Managed Identity](azure.mdx)|A Teleport process demonstrates that it runs in your Azure subscription by sending a signed attested data document and access token to the Teleport Auth Service.|Your Teleport process will run on Azure.|
|[Kubernetes ServiceAccount](kubernetes.mdx)|A Teleport process uses a Kubernetes-signed proof to establish a trust relationship with your Teleport cluster.|Your Teleport process will run on Kubernetes.|
|[GCP IAM](gcp.mdx)|A Teleport process uses a GCP-signed token to establish a trust relationship with your Teleport cluster.|Your Teleport process will run on a GCP VM.|
|[OCI IAM](oracle.mdx)|A Teleport process uses Oracle Cloud credentials to join the cluster.|Your Teleport process will run on an OCI Compute instance.|
|[Join Token](join-token.mdx)|A Teleport process presents a join token provided when starting the service.|There is no other supported method for your cloud provider.|
