docs/pages/database-access/guides/mysql-self-hosted.mdx, before:

---
title: Database Access with Self-Hosted MySQL/MariaDB
description: How to configure Teleport database access with self-hosted MySQL/MariaDB.
---

This guide will help you to:

- Install Teleport `(=teleport.version=)`.
- Set up Teleport to access your MySQL or MariaDB database.
- Connect to your databases through Teleport.

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>
![Teleport Database Access MySQL Self-Hosted](../../../img/database-access/guides/mysql_selfhosted.png)
</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
![Teleport Database Access MySQL Cloud](../../../img/database-access/guides/mysql_cloud.png)
</ScopedBlock>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A self-hosted MySQL or MariaDB instance.
- A host, e.g., an Amazon EC2 instance, where you will run the Teleport Database
  Service.
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/4. Create the Teleport Database Token

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/token.mdx!)

## Step 2/4. Create a certificate/key pair

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/tctl-auth-sign.mdx!)

From your local workstation, create the secrets:

```code
# Export Teleport's certificate authority and generate certificate/key pair
# for host db.example.com with a 3-month validity period.
$ tctl auth sign --format=db --host=db.example.com --out=server --ttl=2190h
```

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/ttl-note.mdx!)

The command will create 3 files: `server.cas`, `server.crt` and `server.key`
which you'll need to enable mutual TLS on your MySQL server. Copy these files
to the environment running MySQL

## Step 3/4. Configure MySQL/MariaDB

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="MySQL">
To configure MySQL to accept TLS connections, add the following to your
MySQL configuration file, `mysql.cnf`:

```conf
[mysqld]
require_secure_transport=ON
ssl-ca=/path/to/server.cas
ssl-cert=/path/to/server.crt
ssl-key=/path/to/server.key
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="MariaDB">
To configure MariaDB to accept TLS connections, add the following to your
MariaDB configuration file, `mysql.cnf`:

```conf
[mariadb]
require_secure_transport=ON
ssl-ca=/path/to/server.cas
ssl-cert=/path/to/server.crt
ssl-key=/path/to/server.key
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Additionally, your MySQL/MariaDB database user accounts must be configured to require a
valid client certificate.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="New User">
Create a new user:

```sql
CREATE USER 'alice'@'%' REQUIRE SUBJECT '/CN=alice';
```

By default, the created user may not have access to anything and won't be able
to connect, so let's grant it some permissions:

```sql
GRANT ALL ON `%`.* TO 'alice'@'%';
```

<Admonition type="warning">
This is an example command that grants database-wide permissions to a user.
In a production environment you should follow the principle of least privilege
</Admonition>
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Existing User">

Because Teleport uses certificates to authenticate database users, the user must
not have a password set. Note that removing an existing user's password may break
existing integrations. Consider using a new Database user specifically for Teleport
access.

Update the existing user to require a valid certificate:

```sql
ALTER USER 'alice'@'%' REQUIRE SUBJECT '/CN=alice';
```

Remove the password from the user:

```sql
SET PASSWORD FOR 'alice'@'%' = PASSWORD("");
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

See
[Configuring MySQL to Use Encrypted Connections](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/using-encrypted-connections.html)
in the MySQL documentation or
[Enabling TLS on MariaDB Server](https://mariadb.com/docs/security/encryption/in-transit/enable-tls-server/)
in the MariaDB documentation for more details.

### Create a Teleport user

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/create-user.mdx!)

### Configure and Start the Database Service

Install and configure Teleport where you will run the Teleport Database Service:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Linux Server">

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/db-configure-start.mdx dbName="example-mysql" dbProtocol="mysql" databaseAddress="mysql.example.com:3306" !)

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Kubernetes Cluster">
  Teleport provides Helm charts for installing the Teleport Database Service in Kubernetes Clusters.

  (!docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/helm-repo-add.mdx!)

  (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/db-helm-install.mdx dbName="example-mysql" dbProtocol="mysql" databaseAddress="mysql.example.com:3306" !)
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/multiple-instances-tip.mdx !)

## Step 4/4. Connect

Once the Database Service has joined the cluster, log in to see the available
databases:

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=alice
$ tsh db ls
# Name          Description   Labels
# ------------- ------------- --------
# example-mysql Example MySQL env=dev
```

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=mytenant.teleport.sh --user=alice
$ tsh db ls
# Name          Description   Labels
# ------------- ------------- --------
# example-mysql Example MySQL env=dev
```

</ScopedBlock>

Note that you will only be able to see databases your role has access to. See
the [RBAC](../rbac.mdx) guide for more details.

To retrieve credentials for a database and connect to it:

```code
$ tsh db connect example-mysql
```

You can optionally specify the database name and the user to use by default
when connecting to the database instance:

```code
$ tsh db connect --db-user=root --db-name=mysql example-mysql
```

<Admonition type="note" title="Note">
  The `mysql` or `mariadb` command-line client should be available in `PATH` in order to be
  able to connect. `mariadb` is a default command-line client for MySQL and MariaDB.
</Admonition>

To log out of the database and remove credentials:

```code
# Remove credentials for a particular database instance.
$ tsh db logout example-mysql
# Remove credentials for all database instances.
$ tsh db logout
```

Commit message:

Docs: clarify the value of 'host' key where needed (#28490)
* clarify the value of 'host' key where needed

* Respond to @ptgott's feedback

docs/pages/database-access/guides/mysql-self-hosted.mdx, after:

---
title: Database Access with Self-Hosted MySQL/MariaDB
description: How to configure Teleport database access with self-hosted MySQL/MariaDB.
---

This guide will help you to:

- Install Teleport `(=teleport.version=)`.
- Set up Teleport to access your MySQL or MariaDB database.
- Connect to your databases through Teleport.

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>
![Teleport Database Access MySQL Self-Hosted](../../../img/database-access/guides/mysql_selfhosted.png)
</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
![Teleport Database Access MySQL Cloud](../../../img/database-access/guides/mysql_cloud.png)
</ScopedBlock>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A self-hosted MySQL or MariaDB instance.
- A host, e.g., an Amazon EC2 instance, where you will run the Teleport Database
  Service.
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/4. Create the Teleport Database Token

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/token.mdx!)

## Step 2/4. Create a certificate/key pair

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/tctl-auth-sign.mdx!)

From your local workstation, create the secrets:

```code
# Export Teleport's certificate authority and generate certificate/key pair
# for host db.example.com with a 3-month validity period.
$ tctl auth sign --format=db --host=db.example.com --out=server --ttl=2190h
```

In this example, `db.example.com` is the hostname where the Teleport Database
Service can reach the MySQL server.

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/ttl-note.mdx!)

The command will create 3 files: `server.cas`, `server.crt` and `server.key`
which you'll need to enable mutual TLS on your MySQL server. Copy these files
to the environment running MySQL

## Step 3/4. Configure MySQL/MariaDB

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="MySQL">
To configure MySQL to accept TLS connections, add the following to your
MySQL configuration file, `mysql.cnf`:

```conf
[mysqld]
require_secure_transport=ON
ssl-ca=/path/to/server.cas
ssl-cert=/path/to/server.crt
ssl-key=/path/to/server.key
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="MariaDB">
To configure MariaDB to accept TLS connections, add the following to your
MariaDB configuration file, `mysql.cnf`:

```conf
[mariadb]
require_secure_transport=ON
ssl-ca=/path/to/server.cas
ssl-cert=/path/to/server.crt
ssl-key=/path/to/server.key
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Additionally, your MySQL/MariaDB database user accounts must be configured to require a
valid client certificate.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="New User">
Create a new user:

```sql
CREATE USER 'alice'@'%' REQUIRE SUBJECT '/CN=alice';
```

By default, the created user may not have access to anything and won't be able
to connect, so let's grant it some permissions:

```sql
GRANT ALL ON `%`.* TO 'alice'@'%';
```

<Admonition type="warning">
This is an example command that grants database-wide permissions to a user.
In a production environment you should follow the principle of least privilege
</Admonition>
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Existing User">

Because Teleport uses certificates to authenticate database users, the user must
not have a password set. Note that removing an existing user's password may break
existing integrations. Consider using a new Database user specifically for Teleport
access.

Update the existing user to require a valid certificate:

```sql
ALTER USER 'alice'@'%' REQUIRE SUBJECT '/CN=alice';
```

Remove the password from the user:

```sql
SET PASSWORD FOR 'alice'@'%' = PASSWORD("");
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

See
[Configuring MySQL to Use Encrypted Connections](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/using-encrypted-connections.html)
in the MySQL documentation or
[Enabling TLS on MariaDB Server](https://mariadb.com/docs/security/encryption/in-transit/enable-tls-server/)
in the MariaDB documentation for more details.

### Create a Teleport user

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/create-user.mdx!)

### Configure and Start the Database Service

Install and configure Teleport where you will run the Teleport Database Service:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Linux Server">

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/db-configure-start.mdx dbName="example-mysql" dbProtocol="mysql" databaseAddress="mysql.example.com:3306" !)

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Kubernetes Cluster">
  Teleport provides Helm charts for installing the Teleport Database Service in Kubernetes Clusters.

  (!docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/helm-repo-add.mdx!)

  (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/db-helm-install.mdx dbName="example-mysql" dbProtocol="mysql" databaseAddress="mysql.example.com:3306" !)
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/multiple-instances-tip.mdx !)

## Step 4/4. Connect

Once the Database Service has joined the cluster, log in to see the available
databases:

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=alice
$ tsh db ls
# Name          Description   Labels
# ------------- ------------- --------
# example-mysql Example MySQL env=dev
```

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=mytenant.teleport.sh --user=alice
$ tsh db ls
# Name          Description   Labels
# ------------- ------------- --------
# example-mysql Example MySQL env=dev
```

</ScopedBlock>

Note that you will only be able to see databases your role has access to. See
the [RBAC](../rbac.mdx) guide for more details.

To retrieve credentials for a database and connect to it:

```code
$ tsh db connect example-mysql
```

You can optionally specify the database name and the user to use by default
when connecting to the database instance:

```code
$ tsh db connect --db-user=root --db-name=mysql example-mysql
```

<Admonition type="note" title="Note">
  The `mysql` or `mariadb` command-line client should be available in `PATH` in order to be
  able to connect. `mariadb` is a default command-line client for MySQL and MariaDB.
</Admonition>

To log out of the database and remove credentials:

```code
# Remove credentials for a particular database instance.
$ tsh db logout example-mysql
# Remove credentials for all database instances.
$ tsh db logout
```
