docs/pages/database-access/guides/oracle-self-hosted.mdx, before:

---
title: Database Access with Oracle (Preview)
description: How to configure Teleport database access with Oracle.
---

<Admonition type="warning" title="Preview">
  Database access for Oracle Database is currently in Preview mode.
</Admonition>

This guide will help you to:

- Install and configure Teleport.
- Set up Teleport to access your self-hosted Oracle server 18c or later.
- Connect to your database through Teleport.

<ScopedBlock scope={["enterprise"]}>
![Teleport Database Access Self-hosted Oracle](../../../img/database-access/guides/oracle_selfhosted.png)
</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
![Teleport Database Access Oracle Cloud](../../../img/database-access/guides/oracle_selfhosted_cloud.png)
</ScopedBlock>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)
- Self-hosted Oracle server instance 18c or later.
- The `sqlcl` [Oracle client](https://www.oracle.com/pl/database/sqldeveloper/technologies/sqlcl/) installed and added to your system's `PATH` environment variable or any GUI client that supports JDBC
  Oracle thin client.

## Step 1/5. Create a Teleport token and user

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/token.mdx!)

<Admonition type="tip">

To modify an existing user to provide access to the Database Service, see [Database Access Access Controls](../../database-access/rbac.mdx)

</Admonition>

Create a local Teleport user with the built-in `access` and `requester` roles:

```code
$ tctl users add \
  --roles=access,requester \
  --db-users=\* \
  --db-names=\* \
  alice
```

| Flag         | Description                                                                                                                              |
|--------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--roles`    | List of roles to assign to the user. The builtin `access` role allows them to connect to any database server registered with Teleport.   |
| `--db-users` | List of database usernames the user will be allowed to use when connecting to the databases. A wildcard allows any user.                 |
| `--db-names` | List of logical databases (aka schemas) the user will be allowed to connect to within a database server. A wildcard allows any database. |

<Admonition type="warning">
  Database names are only enforced for PostgreSQL and MongoDB databases.
</Admonition>

For more detailed information about database access controls and how to restrict
access see [RBAC](../../database-access/rbac.mdx) documentation.

## Step 2/5. Create a certificate/key pair and Teleport Oracle Wallet

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/tctl-auth-sign.mdx!)

Follow the instructions below to generate TLS credentials for your database.

```code
# Export Teleport's certificate authority and a generated certificate/key pair
# for host db.example.com with a 1-year validity period.
$ tctl auth sign --format=oracle --host=db.example.com --out=server --ttl=2190h
```

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/ttl-note.mdx!)

If `tctl` finds the Orapki tool in your local environment, the `tctl auth sign --format=oracle --host=db.example.com --out=server --ttl=2190h` command will produce an Oracle Wallet and
instructions how to configure the Oracle TCPS listener with Teleport Oracle Wallet. Otherwise the `tctl auth sign --format=oracle` command  will produce a `p12` certificate and instructions on how to create an Oracle Wallet on your Oracle Database instance.

## Step 3/5. Configure Oracle Database

In order to enable the Teleport Oracle integration you will need to configure the TCPS Oracle listener and use the Teleport Oracle Wallet created in the previous step.

Align your `listener.ora` Oracle configuration file and add the following entries:

```
LISTENER =
  (DESCRIPTION_LIST =
    (DESCRIPTION =
      (ADDRESS = (PROTOCOL = TCPS)(HOST = 0.0.0.0)(PORT = 2484))
    )
  )

WALLET_LOCATION = (SOURCE = (METHOD = FILE)(METHOD_DATA = (DIRECTORY = /path/to/oracleWalletDir)))
SSL_CLIENT_AUTHENTICATION = TRUE
```

Additionally, you will need to extend your `sqlnet.ora` Oracle configuration:

```
WALLET_LOCATION = (SOURCE = (METHOD = FILE)(METHOD_DATA = (DIRECTORY = /path/to/oracleWalletDir)))
SSL_CLIENT_AUTHENTICATION = TRUE
SQLNET.AUTHENTICATION_SERVICES = (TCPS)
```

<Admonition type="tip">
You will need to reload Oracle Listener `lsnrctl reload` after updating the `listener.ora` configuration file.
</Admonition>

Additionally, your Oracle Database user accounts must be configured to require a valid client certificate. If you're creating a new user:

```sql
CREATE USER alice IDENTIFIED EXTERNALLY AS 'CN=alice';
GRANT CREATE SESSION TO alice;
```
## Step 4/5. Configure and Start the Database Service
Install and configure Teleport where you will run the Teleport Database Service:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Linux Server">

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux-enterprise.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/db-configure-start.mdx dbName="oracle" dbProtocol="oracle" databaseAddress="oracle.example.com:2484" dbName="oracle" !)

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Kubernetes Cluster">
  Teleport provides Helm charts for installing the Teleport Database Service in Kubernetes Clusters.

  (!docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/helm-repo-add.mdx!)

  <Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Teleport Enterprise" scope={["enterprise"]}>
  Install the Teleport Kube Agent into your Kubernetes Cluster
  with the Teleport Database Service configuration.
  
  ```code
  $ JOIN_TOKEN=$(cat /tmp/token)
  $ helm install teleport-kube-agent teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
    --create-namespace \
    --namespace teleport-agent \
    --set roles=db \
    --set proxyAddr=teleport.example.com:443 \
    --set authToken=${JOIN_TOKEN?} \
    --set "databases[0].name=oracle" \
    --set "databases[0].uri=oracle.example.com:2484" \
    --set "databases[0].protocol=oracle" \
    --set "labels.env=dev" \
    --version (=teleport.version=)
  ```
  
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Teleport Enterprise Cloud" scope={["cloud"]}>
  Install the Teleport Kube Agent into your Kubernetes Cluster
  with the Teleport Database Service configuration.
  
  ```code
  $ JOIN_TOKEN=$(cat /tmp/token)
  $ helm install teleport-kube-agent teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
    --create-namespace \
    --namespace teleport-agent \
    --set roles=db \
    --set proxyAddr=mytenant.teleport.sh:443 \
    --set authToken=${JOIN_TOKEN?} \
    --set "databases[0].name=oracle" \
    --set "databases[0].uri=oracle.example.com:2484" \
    --set "databases[0].protocol=oracle" \
    --set "labels.env=dev" \
    --version (=cloud.version=)
  ```
  
  </TabItem>
  </Tabs>
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/multiple-instances-tip.mdx !)

## Step 5/5. Connect

Once the Database Service has joined the cluster, log in to see the available
databases:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=<Var name="mytenant.teleport.sh" /> --user=alice
$ tsh db ls
# Name   Description    Allowed Users Labels  Connect
# ------ -------------- ------------- ------- -------
# oracle Oracle Example [*]                   env=dev
```

Connect to the database:

```code
$ tsh db connect --db-user=alice --db-name=XE oracle
#
#
# SQLcl: Release 22.4 Production on Fri Mar 31 20:48:02 2023
#
# Copyright (c) 1982, 2023, Oracle.  All rights reserved.
#
# Connected to:
# Oracle Database 21c Express Edition Release 21.0.0.0.0 - Production
# Version 21.3.0.0.0
#
# SQL>
```

To log out of the database and remove credentials:

```code
# Remove credentials for a particular database instance.
$ tsh db logout oracle
# Remove credentials for all database instances.
$ tsh db logout
```

## Next steps

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/guides-next-steps.mdx!)

- Learn more about  `sqlnet.ora` and `listener.ora` configuration from the [Parameters for the sqlnet.ora File](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/18/netrf/parameters-for-the-sqlnet-ora-file.html#GUID-28040885-6832-4FFC-9258-0EF19FE9A3AC) and [Oracle Net Listener Parameters in the listener.ora File](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/18/netrf/Oracle-Net-Listener-parameters-in-listener-ora-file.html#GUID-F9FA0DF5-2FAF-45CA-B6A1-F0166C7BFE54) Oracle documentation.

Commit message:

Docs: clarify the value of 'host' key where needed (#28490)
* clarify the value of 'host' key where needed

* Respond to @ptgott's feedback

docs/pages/database-access/guides/oracle-self-hosted.mdx, after:

---
title: Database Access with Oracle (Preview)
description: How to configure Teleport database access with Oracle.
---

<Admonition type="warning" title="Preview">
  Database access for Oracle Database is currently in Preview mode.
</Admonition>

This guide will help you to:

- Install and configure Teleport.
- Set up Teleport to access your self-hosted Oracle server 18c or later.
- Connect to your database through Teleport.

<ScopedBlock scope={["enterprise"]}>
![Teleport Database Access Self-hosted Oracle](../../../img/database-access/guides/oracle_selfhosted.png)
</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
![Teleport Database Access Oracle Cloud](../../../img/database-access/guides/oracle_selfhosted_cloud.png)
</ScopedBlock>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)
- Self-hosted Oracle server instance 18c or later.
- The `sqlcl` [Oracle client](https://www.oracle.com/pl/database/sqldeveloper/technologies/sqlcl/) installed and added to your system's `PATH` environment variable or any GUI client that supports JDBC
  Oracle thin client.

## Step 1/5. Create a Teleport token and user

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/token.mdx!)

<Admonition type="tip">

To modify an existing user to provide access to the Database Service, see [Database Access Access Controls](../../database-access/rbac.mdx)

</Admonition>

Create a local Teleport user with the built-in `access` and `requester` roles:

```code
$ tctl users add \
  --roles=access,requester \
  --db-users=\* \
  --db-names=\* \
  alice
```

| Flag         | Description                                                                                                                              |
|--------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--roles`    | List of roles to assign to the user. The builtin `access` role allows them to connect to any database server registered with Teleport.   |
| `--db-users` | List of database usernames the user will be allowed to use when connecting to the databases. A wildcard allows any user.                 |
| `--db-names` | List of logical databases (aka schemas) the user will be allowed to connect to within a database server. A wildcard allows any database. |

<Admonition type="warning">
  Database names are only enforced for PostgreSQL and MongoDB databases.
</Admonition>

For more detailed information about database access controls and how to restrict
access see [RBAC](../../database-access/rbac.mdx) documentation.

## Step 2/5. Create a certificate/key pair and Teleport Oracle Wallet

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/tctl-auth-sign.mdx!)

Follow the instructions below to generate TLS credentials for your database.

```code
# Export Teleport's certificate authority and a generated certificate/key pair
# for host db.example.com with a 1-year validity period.
$ tctl auth sign --format=oracle --host=db.example.com --out=server --ttl=2190h
```

In this example, `db.example.com` is the hostname where the Teleport Database
Service can reach the Oracle server.

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/ttl-note.mdx!)

If `tctl` finds the Orapki tool in your local environment, the `tctl auth sign --format=oracle --host=db.example.com --out=server --ttl=2190h` command will produce an Oracle Wallet and
instructions how to configure the Oracle TCPS listener with Teleport Oracle Wallet. Otherwise the `tctl auth sign --format=oracle` command  will produce a `p12` certificate and instructions on how to create an Oracle Wallet on your Oracle Database instance.

## Step 3/5. Configure Oracle Database

In order to enable the Teleport Oracle integration you will need to configure the TCPS Oracle listener and use the Teleport Oracle Wallet created in the previous step.

Align your `listener.ora` Oracle configuration file and add the following entries:

```
LISTENER =
  (DESCRIPTION_LIST =
    (DESCRIPTION =
      (ADDRESS = (PROTOCOL = TCPS)(HOST = 0.0.0.0)(PORT = 2484))
    )
  )

WALLET_LOCATION = (SOURCE = (METHOD = FILE)(METHOD_DATA = (DIRECTORY = /path/to/oracleWalletDir)))
SSL_CLIENT_AUTHENTICATION = TRUE
```

Additionally, you will need to extend your `sqlnet.ora` Oracle configuration:

```
WALLET_LOCATION = (SOURCE = (METHOD = FILE)(METHOD_DATA = (DIRECTORY = /path/to/oracleWalletDir)))
SSL_CLIENT_AUTHENTICATION = TRUE
SQLNET.AUTHENTICATION_SERVICES = (TCPS)
```

<Admonition type="tip">
You will need to reload Oracle Listener `lsnrctl reload` after updating the `listener.ora` configuration file.
</Admonition>

Additionally, your Oracle Database user accounts must be configured to require a valid client certificate. If you're creating a new user:

```sql
CREATE USER alice IDENTIFIED EXTERNALLY AS 'CN=alice';
GRANT CREATE SESSION TO alice;
```
## Step 4/5. Configure and Start the Database Service
Install and configure Teleport where you will run the Teleport Database Service:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Linux Server">

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux-enterprise.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/db-configure-start.mdx dbName="oracle" dbProtocol="oracle" databaseAddress="oracle.example.com:2484" dbName="oracle" !)

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Kubernetes Cluster">
  Teleport provides Helm charts for installing the Teleport Database Service in Kubernetes Clusters.

  (!docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/helm-repo-add.mdx!)

  <Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Teleport Enterprise" scope={["enterprise"]}>
  Install the Teleport Kube Agent into your Kubernetes Cluster
  with the Teleport Database Service configuration.
  
  ```code
  $ JOIN_TOKEN=$(cat /tmp/token)
  $ helm install teleport-kube-agent teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
    --create-namespace \
    --namespace teleport-agent \
    --set roles=db \
    --set proxyAddr=teleport.example.com:443 \
    --set authToken=${JOIN_TOKEN?} \
    --set "databases[0].name=oracle" \
    --set "databases[0].uri=oracle.example.com:2484" \
    --set "databases[0].protocol=oracle" \
    --set "labels.env=dev" \
    --version (=teleport.version=)
  ```
  
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Teleport Enterprise Cloud" scope={["cloud"]}>
  Install the Teleport Kube Agent into your Kubernetes Cluster
  with the Teleport Database Service configuration.
  
  ```code
  $ JOIN_TOKEN=$(cat /tmp/token)
  $ helm install teleport-kube-agent teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
    --create-namespace \
    --namespace teleport-agent \
    --set roles=db \
    --set proxyAddr=mytenant.teleport.sh:443 \
    --set authToken=${JOIN_TOKEN?} \
    --set "databases[0].name=oracle" \
    --set "databases[0].uri=oracle.example.com:2484" \
    --set "databases[0].protocol=oracle" \
    --set "labels.env=dev" \
    --version (=cloud.version=)
  ```
  
  </TabItem>
  </Tabs>
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/multiple-instances-tip.mdx !)

## Step 5/5. Connect

Once the Database Service has joined the cluster, log in to see the available
databases:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=<Var name="mytenant.teleport.sh" /> --user=alice
$ tsh db ls
# Name   Description    Allowed Users Labels  Connect
# ------ -------------- ------------- ------- -------
# oracle Oracle Example [*]                   env=dev
```

Connect to the database:

```code
$ tsh db connect --db-user=alice --db-name=XE oracle
#
#
# SQLcl: Release 22.4 Production on Fri Mar 31 20:48:02 2023
#
# Copyright (c) 1982, 2023, Oracle.  All rights reserved.
#
# Connected to:
# Oracle Database 21c Express Edition Release 21.0.0.0.0 - Production
# Version 21.3.0.0.0
#
# SQL>
```

To log out of the database and remove credentials:

```code
# Remove credentials for a particular database instance.
$ tsh db logout oracle
# Remove credentials for all database instances.
$ tsh db logout
```

## Next steps

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/guides-next-steps.mdx!)

- Learn more about  `sqlnet.ora` and `listener.ora` configuration from the [Parameters for the sqlnet.ora File](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/18/netrf/parameters-for-the-sqlnet-ora-file.html#GUID-28040885-6832-4FFC-9258-0EF19FE9A3AC) and [Oracle Net Listener Parameters in the listener.ora File](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/18/netrf/Oracle-Net-Listener-parameters-in-listener-ora-file.html#GUID-F9FA0DF5-2FAF-45CA-B6A1-F0166C7BFE54) Oracle documentation.
