docs/pages/upgrading/agent-managed-updates.mdx, before:

---
title: Teleport Managed Agent Updates (v2)
description: Describes how to set up Teleport Managed Agent Updates v2.
---

<Notice type="warning">
This document describes the Managed Updates v2 updater, which is currently in beta.

For Managed Updates v1 instructions, see
[Managed Updates for Agents (v1)](./agent-managed-updates-v1.mdx).
</Notice>

In Managed Updates v2, a binary called `teleport-update` is distributed in
all Teleport packages, alongside the `teleport` binary. Admins configure updates
by managing the `autoupdate_version` and `autoupdate_config` dynamic resources.

This document covers how to use `teleport-update` and the `autoupdate_*`
resources to manage your agent updates from Teleport. It describes:
- [The agent architecture](#how-it-works)
- [How to enroll existing agents](#quick-setup-for-existing-connected-linux-servers)
- [How to enroll new agents](#quick-setup-for-new-linux-servers)
- [How to configure Managed Updates v2](#configuring-managed-agent-updates) (
  [when updates happen](#configuring-the-schedule) and for self-hosted users,
  [which version to update to](#setting-the-version-self-hosted-only))
- [How to migrate to Managed Updates v2](#migrating-agents-on-linux-servers-to-managed-updates)

`teleport-update` supports:
- Both Teleport Enterprise and Teleport Community Edition
- Both cloud and self-hosted Teleport Enterprise deployments
- Regular and FIPS variants of Teleport
- amd64 and arm64 CPU architectures
- systemd-based operating systems, regardless of the package manager used

<Admonition type="note" title="Compatibility between Managed Updates v1 and v2">
Managed updates v2 are backwards compatible with the
`cluster_maintenance_config` resource. The Managed Updates v1 `teleport-upgrade` script
is forwards compatible with the `autoupdate_config` and `autoupdate_version` resources.
Agents connected to the same cluster should all update to the same version.

If the `autoupdate_version` resource is configured, it takes precedence over
`cluster_maintenance_config`. This allows for a safe, non-breaking, incremental
migration between Managed Updates v1 and v2.

Users of cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise will be migrated to Managed Updates v2
in the first half of 2025 and should plan to migrate their agents to `teleport-update`.
</Admonition>

## How it works

When Managed Updates are enabled, a Teleport updater is installed alongside
each new Teleport Agent. The updater communicates with the Teleport Proxy Service to
determine when an update is available and if it should perform the update now.

Each agent belongs to an update group. The update schedule specifies when each
group is updated. The schedule is stored in the `autoupdate_config` resource and
can be edited via `tctl`.

For Linux server-based installations, `teleport-update` command configures
Managed Updates locally on the server.

For Kubernetes-based installations, the `teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart
deploys a controller that automatically updates the main Teleport container.

Existing agents must be manually enrolled into Managed Updates.

## Prerequisites

- A Teleport cluster. If you do not have one, [sign
  up](https://goteleport.com/signup) for a free trial or consult the
  [Teleport Installation](../installation.mdx) page.
- Familiarity with the [Upgrading Compatibility Overview](./overview.mdx) guide,
  which describes the sequence in which to upgrade components in your cluster.
- Teleport Agents that are not yet enrolled in Managed Updates.
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl-tsh-prerequisite.mdx!)
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Quick setup for existing connected Linux servers

Users can enable Managed Updates v2 on Linux servers that are already running
a Teleport Agent by running the following command on every server:

```code
$ sudo teleport-update enable
```

<Notice type="note">
If this command is not available, update the `teleport` package
to the latest version that is supported by your cluster.
</Notice>

The `teleport-update enable` command will disable (but not remove)
the v1 updater if present. No other action is necessary.

If everything is working, the v1 updater package can be removed:

```code
$ sudo apt remove teleport-ent-updater
```

If the v2 updater does not work, your installation can be reverted
back to manual updates or the v1 updater (if it has not been removed):

```code
$ sudo teleport-update uninstall
```

If Teleport was installed via the apt or yum package,
`teleport-update uninstall` will revert the running version of Teleport back to
the version provided by the package.

## Quick setup for new Linux servers

The [Install Script](../installation.mdx#one-line-installation-script) is the
fastest way to onboard new Linux servers. However, you may also use
`teleport-update` by itself to set up a Teleport Agent manually.

Users can create a new installation of Teleport using any version of the
`teleport-update` binary. First, download copy of the Teleport tarball from
the downloads page. Next, invoke `teleport-update` to install the correct version
for your cluster.

```code
$ tar xf teleport-[version].tgz
$ cd teleport-[version]
$ sudo ./teleport-update enable --proxy example.teleport.sh
```

After Teleport is installed, you can create `/etc/teleport.yaml`, either manually
or using `teleport configure`. After, the Teleport Agent can be enabled and
started via the `systemctl` command:

```code
$ sudo systemctl enable teleport --now
```

## Configuring managed agent updates

Managed agent updates are configured via two Teleport resources:
- `autoupdate_config` controls the update schedule
- `autoupdate_version` controls the desired version

Self-hosted Teleport users must configure both `autoupdate_config` and
`autoupdate_version`.

Cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise users can configure the `autoupdate_config`, while the
`autoupdate_version` is managed by Teleport Cloud. Updates will roll out
automatically during the first chosen maintenance window that is at least 36
hours after the cluster version is updated.

To configure Managed Updates in your cluster, you must have access to
the `autoupdate_config` and `autoupdate_version` resources. By default,
the `editor` role can modify both resources.

### Configuring the schedule

For both cloud-hosted and self-hosted editions of Teleport, an update schedule
may be set with the `autoupdate_config` resource. The default resource looks
like this:

```yaml
kind: autoupdate_config
metadata:
  name: autoupdate-config
spec:
  agents:
    mode: enabled
    strategy: halt-on-error
    schedules:
      regular:
        - name: default
          days: [ "Mon", "Tue", "Wed", "Thu" ]
          # start_hour is in UTC
          start_hour: 16
```

For example, a Teleport user with staging and production
environments might create a custom schedule that looks like this:

```yaml
kind: autoupdate_config
metadata:
  name: autoupdate-config
spec:
  agents:
    mode: enabled
    strategy: halt-on-error
    schedules:
      regular:
        - name: staging
          days: [ "Mon", "Tue", "Wed", "Thu" ]
          start_hour: 4
        - name: production
          days: [ "Mon", "Tue", "Wed", "Thu" ]
          start_hour: 5
          wait_hours: 24
```

This schedule would update agents in the `staging` group at 4 UTC, and then update
the `production` group at 5 UTC the next day. The `production` group will not execute
update until the staging group has updated. The `wait_hours` field sets a minimum
duration between groups, ensuring that `production` happens the day after `staging`,
and not one hour after.

<Notice type="warning">
While failed installations will revert automatically on the client-side,
server-side healthchecks are still in development. To prevent the `production`
group above from updating after `staging` has failed, you must manually suspend
the schedule by setting the `spec.agents.mode` to `suspended`.
</Notice>

You may wish to schedule groups of agents to update without any dependence between
them. For example, groups may represent geographic areas and not environments.
To accomplish this, you can change the default `halt-on-error` strategy to the
`time-based` strategy:

```yaml
kind: autoupdate_config
metadata:
  name: autoupdate-config
spec:
  agents:
    strategy: time-based
    maintenance_window_duration: 1h
    schedules:
      regular:
        - name: nyc
          days: [ "Mon", "Tue", "Wed", "Thu" ]
          start_hour: 4
        - name: sj
          days: [ "Mon", "Tue", "Wed", "Thu" ]
          start_hour: 20
```

With this strategy, updates to `sj` may occur before `nyc`, depending on when
new versions become available. The `maintenance_window_duration` restricts
updates to the specified duration after the `start_hour`. This ensures that
disruptions do not occur outside a known window.

The time-based strategy does not support the `wait_days` option.

To add agents to groups, run `teleport-update enable --group group-name`.
You may execute `teleport-update enable` repeatedly to change the group
(or other Managed Update settings).

<Admonition type="info" title="Cloud-hosting schedule constraints">
For cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise, the `days` are not configurable for most
customers, and the `start_hour` is defaulted to your selected maintenance window.

Cloud-hosted Teleport clusters also have a maximum of 5 update groups by default,
and a full update schedule must not be longer than 4 days. Those limitations
ensure that all your agents are updated weekly and that they stay
compatible with the Teleport cluster's version.
</Admonition>

### Setting the version (self-hosted only)

For cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise, Managed Updates are enabled by default.
The `autoupdate_version` resource is managed for you and cannot be edited.
This ensures your agents are always up-to-date and running the best version
for your Teleport cluster.

Self-hosted Teleport users must specify which version their agents should update
to via the `autoupdate_version` resource.

Create a file called `autoupdate_version.yaml` containing:

```yaml
kind: autoupdate_version
metadata:
  name: autoupdate-version
spec:
  agents:
    start_version: 17.2.0
    target_version: 17.2.1
    schedule: regular
    mode: enabled
```

This resource is used to deploy new versions of Teleport to your agents.
The cluster will update agents from `start_version` to `target_version`
according to the update schedule specified in the `autoupdate_config`.

The `schedule` may be changed from `regular` to `immediate` to force all
agents to update to the `target_version` immediately.

The `mode` is used to enable, disable, or suspend Managed Updates.
The `mode` may be set in both `autoupdate_version` or `autoupdate_config`,
such that `disabled` overrides `suspended`, which overrides `enabled` on either
side. The `mode` being specified in two places is useful when
`autoupdate_version` and `autoupdate_config` are not managed by the same team.

Run the following command to create or update the resource:

```code
$ tctl create autoupdate_version.yaml
```
## Migrating agents on Linux servers to Managed Updates

### Finding unmanaged agents

Use the `tctl inventory ls` command to list connected agents along with their current
version. Use the `--upgrader=none` flag to list agents that are not enrolled in managed
updates.

```code
$ tctl inventory ls --upgrader=none
Server ID                            Hostname      Services Version Upgrader
------------------------------------ ------------- -------- ------- --------
00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 ip-10-1-6-130 Node     v14.4.5 none
...
```

Use the `--upgrader=unit` flag to list agents that are using Managed Updates v1
and should be updated to Managed Updates v2:

```code
$ tctl inventory ls --upgrader=unit
Server ID                            Hostname      Services Version Upgrader
------------------------------------ ------------- -------- ------- --------
00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 ip-10-1-6-131 Node     v14.4.5 unit
...
```

Agents enrolled into Managed Updates v2 can be queried with the
`--upgrader=binary` flag.

### Enrolling unmanaged agents

1. For each agent ID returned by the `tctl inventory ls` command, copy the ID
   and run the following `tctl` command to access the host via `tsh`:

   ```code
   $ HOST=00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
   $ USER=root
   $ tsh ssh "${USER?}@${HOST?}"
   ```

1. Run `teleport-update enable` on each agent you would like
   to enroll into Managed Updates v2:

   ```code
   $ sudo teleport-update enable
   ```

1. Confirm that the version of the `teleport` binary is the one you expect:

   ```code
   $ teleport version
   ```

1. Remove the Managed Updates v1 updater if present:

   <Tabs>
   <TabItem label="DEB">

   ```code
   $ sudo apt remove teleport-ent-updater
   ```

   </TabItem>
   <TabItem label="RPM">

   ```code
   $ sudo yum remove teleport-ent-updater
   ```

   </TabItem>
   </Tabs>

<Details title="Running the agent as a non-root user">

If you changed the agent user to run as non-root, create
`/etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule` and grant ownership to your Teleport user:

```code
$ sudo mkdir -p /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/
$ sudo touch /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule
$ sudo chown your-teleport-user /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule
```

While `teleport-update` does not read this file, `teleport` will warn if it
cannot disable the Managed Update v1 updater using this file.

</Details>

## Enroll Kubernetes agents in Managed Updates

This section assumes that the name of your `teleport-kube-agent` release is
`teleport-agent`, and that you have installed it in the `teleport` namespace.

1. Add the following chart values to the values file for the
   `teleport-kube-agent` chart:

   ```yaml
   updater:
     enabled: true
   ```

1. Update the Teleport Helm repository to include any new versions of the
   `teleport-kube-agent` chart:

   ```code
   $ helm repo update teleport
   ```

1. Update the Helm chart release with the new values:

   <Tabs>
   <TabItem label="Cloud-Hosted">

   ```code
   $ helm -n <Var name="teleport" />  upgrade <Var name="teleport-agent" /> teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
   --values=values.yaml \
   --version="(=cloud.version=)"
   ```
   </TabItem>
   <TabItem label="Self-Hosted">

   ```code
   $ helm -n <Var name="teleport" />  upgrade <Var name="teleport-agent" /> teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
   --values=values.yaml \
   --version="(=teleport.version=)"
   ```
   </TabItem>
   </Tabs>

1. You can validate the updater is running properly by checking if its pod is
   ready:

   ```code
   $ kubectl -n teleport-agent get pods
   NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   <your-agent-release>-0                         1/1     Running   0          14m
   <your-agent-release>-1                         1/1     Running   0          14m
   <your-agent-release>-2                         1/1     Running   0          14m
   <your-agent-release>-updater-d9f97f5dd-v57g9   1/1     Running   0          16m
   ```

1. Check for any deployment issues by checking the updater logs:

   ```code
   $ kubectl -n <Var name="teleport" /> logs deployment/<Var name="teleport-agent" />-updater
   2023-04-28T13:13:30Z	INFO	StatefulSet is already up-to-date, not updating.	{"controller": "statefulset", "controllerGroup": "apps", "controllerKind": "StatefulSet", "StatefulSet": {"name":"my-agent","namespace":"agent"}, "namespace": "agent", "name": "my-agent", "reconcileID": "10419f20-a4c9-45d4-a16f-406866b7fc05", "namespacedname": "agent/my-agent", "kind": "StatefulSet", "err": "no new version (current: \"v12.2.3\", next: \"v12.2.3\")"}
   ```

## Troubleshooting

You can inspect the current agent autoupdate status by running:
```code
$ tctl autoupdate agents status

Agent autoupdate mode: enabled
Rollout creation date: 2025-02-24 16:01:44
Start version: 17.2.0
Target version: 17.2.1
Rollout state: Unstarted
Strategy: time-based

Group Name State     Start Time State Reason
---------- --------- ---------- --------------
default    Unstarted            outside_window
```

This rollout state is computed by each Auth Service instance every minute. An `autoupdate_config` or `autoupdate_version`
change might take up to a minute to be reflected and applied.

Teleport Agents are not updated immediately when a new version of Teleport is
released, and agent updates can lag behind the cluster by a few days.

If the Teleport Agent has not been automatically updating for several weeks, you
can consult the updater logs to help troubleshoot the problem:

### Troubleshooting managed agent upgrades on Kubernetes

The updater is a controller that periodically reconciles expected Kubernetes
resources with those in the cluster. The updater executes a reconciliation loop
every 30 minutes or in response to a Kubernetes event. If you don't want to wait
until the next reconciliation, you can trigger an event.

1. Any deployment update will send an event, so you can trigger the upgrader by
   annotating the resource:

   ```code
   $ kubectl -n <Var name="teleport" /> annotate statefulset/<Var name="teleport-agent" /> 'debug.teleport.dev/trigger-event=1'
   ```

1. To suspend Managed Updates for an agent, annotate the agent deployment
   with `teleport.dev/skipreconcile: "true"`, either by setting the
   `annotations.deployment` value in Helm, or by patching the deployment
   directly with `kubectl`.

### Troubleshooting managed agent upgrades on Linux

1. You can query the updater status by running:

   ```code
   $ teleport-update status
   proxy: teleport.example.com:443
   path: /usr/local/bin
   base_url: https://cdn.teleport.dev
   enabled: true
   pinned: false
   active:
       version: 17.2.0
       flags: [Enterprise]
   target:
       version: 17.2.1
       flags: [Enterprise]
   in_window: false
   jitter: 1m0s
   ```

   Here, the local active version is 17.2.0. The cluster's target version is
   17.2.1, but we are not in an update window, so the agent is not immediately
   updated.

```code
$ journalctl -u teleport-update
```

1. If an agent is not automatically updated, you can invoke the updater
   manually and look at its logs:

   ```code
   $ sudo teleport-update update --now
   ```

Commit message:

Improve readability of Managed Updates docs intro (#52678) (#52763)
* Fix confusing wording in Managed Updates v1

* Update agent-managed-updates.mdx

* Update agent-managed-updates-v1.mdx

* Apply suggestions from code review



---------

Co-authored-by: Paul Gottschling <paul.gottschling@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/upgrading/agent-managed-updates.mdx, after:

---
title: Managed Updates (v2) for Teleport Agents
description: Describes how to set up Managed Updates (v2) for Teleport Agents
---

<Notice type="warning">
This document describes Managed Updates for Agents (v2), which is currently in beta.

For Managed Updates v1 instructions, see
[Managed Updates for Agents (v1)](./agent-managed-updates-v1.mdx).
</Notice>

In Managed Updates v2, a binary called `teleport-update` is distributed in
all Teleport packages, alongside the `teleport` binary. Admins configure updates
by managing the `autoupdate_version` and `autoupdate_config` dynamic resources.

This document covers how to use `teleport-update` and the `autoupdate_*`
resources to manage your agent updates from Teleport. It describes:
- [The agent architecture](#how-it-works)
- [How to enroll existing agents](#quick-setup-for-existing-connected-linux-servers)
- [How to enroll new agents](#quick-setup-for-new-linux-servers)
- [How to configure Managed Updates v2](#configuring-managed-agent-updates) (
  [when updates happen](#configuring-the-schedule) and for self-hosted users,
  [which version to update to](#setting-the-version-self-hosted-only))
- [How to migrate to Managed Updates v2](#migrating-agents-on-linux-servers-to-managed-updates)

`teleport-update` supports:
- Both Teleport Enterprise and Teleport Community Edition
- Both cloud and self-hosted Teleport Enterprise deployments
- Regular and FIPS variants of Teleport
- amd64 and arm64 CPU architectures
- systemd-based operating systems, regardless of the package manager used

<Admonition type="note" title="Compatibility between Managed Updates v1 and v2">
Managed Updates v2 is backwards-compatible with the
`cluster_maintenance_config` resource. The Managed Updates v1 `teleport-upgrade` script
is forwards-compatible with the `autoupdate_config` and `autoupdate_version` resources.
Agents connected to the same cluster should all update to the same version.

If the `autoupdate_version` resource is configured, it takes precedence over
`cluster_maintenance_config`. This allows for a safe, non-breaking, incremental
migration between Managed Updates v1 and v2.

Users of cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise will be migrated to Managed Updates v2
in the first half of 2025 and should plan to migrate their agents to `teleport-update`.
</Admonition>

## How it works

When Managed Updates are enabled, a Teleport updater is installed alongside
each new Teleport Agent. The updater communicates with the Teleport Proxy Service to
determine when an update is available and if it should perform the update now.

Each agent belongs to an update group. The update schedule specifies when each
group is updated. The schedule is stored in the `autoupdate_config` resource and
can be edited via `tctl`.

For Linux server-based installations, `teleport-update` command configures
Managed Updates locally on the server.

For Kubernetes-based installations, the `teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart
deploys a controller that automatically updates the main Teleport container.

Existing agents must be manually enrolled into Managed Updates.

## Prerequisites

- A Teleport cluster. If you do not have one, [sign
  up](https://goteleport.com/signup) for a free trial or consult the
  [Teleport Installation](../installation.mdx) page.
- Familiarity with the [Upgrading Compatibility Overview](./overview.mdx) guide,
  which describes the sequence in which to upgrade components in your cluster.
- Teleport Agents that are not yet enrolled in Managed Updates.
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl-tsh-prerequisite.mdx!)
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Quick setup for existing connected Linux servers

Users can enable Managed Updates v2 on Linux servers that are already running
a Teleport Agent by running the following command on every server:

```code
$ sudo teleport-update enable
```

<Notice type="note">
If this command is not available, update the `teleport` package
to the latest version that is supported by your cluster.
</Notice>

The `teleport-update enable` command will disable (but not remove)
the v1 updater if present. No other action is necessary.

If everything is working, the v1 updater package can be removed:

```code
$ sudo apt remove teleport-ent-updater
```

If the v2 updater does not work, your installation can be reverted
back to manual updates or the v1 updater (if it has not been removed):

```code
$ sudo teleport-update uninstall
```

If Teleport was installed via the apt or yum package,
`teleport-update uninstall` will revert the running version of Teleport back to
the version provided by the package.

## Quick setup for new Linux servers

The [Install Script](../installation.mdx#one-line-installation-script) is the
fastest way to onboard new Linux servers. However, you may also use
`teleport-update` by itself to set up a Teleport Agent manually.

Users can create a new installation of Teleport using any version of the
`teleport-update` binary. First, download copy of the Teleport tarball from
the downloads page. Next, invoke `teleport-update` to install the correct version
for your cluster.

```code
$ tar xf teleport-[version].tgz
$ cd teleport-[version]
$ sudo ./teleport-update enable --proxy example.teleport.sh
```

After Teleport is installed, you can create `/etc/teleport.yaml`, either manually
or using `teleport configure`. After, the Teleport Agent can be enabled and
started via the `systemctl` command:

```code
$ sudo systemctl enable teleport --now
```

## Configuring managed agent updates

Managed agent updates are configured via two Teleport resources:
- `autoupdate_config` controls the update schedule
- `autoupdate_version` controls the desired version

Self-hosted Teleport users must configure both `autoupdate_config` and
`autoupdate_version`.

Cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise users can configure the `autoupdate_config`, while the
`autoupdate_version` is managed by Teleport Cloud. Updates will roll out
automatically during the first chosen maintenance window that is at least 36
hours after the cluster version is updated.

To configure Managed Updates in your cluster, you must have access to
the `autoupdate_config` and `autoupdate_version` resources. By default,
the `editor` role can modify both resources.

### Configuring the schedule

For both cloud-hosted and self-hosted editions of Teleport, an update schedule
may be set with the `autoupdate_config` resource. The default resource looks
like this:

```yaml
kind: autoupdate_config
metadata:
  name: autoupdate-config
spec:
  agents:
    mode: enabled
    strategy: halt-on-error
    schedules:
      regular:
        - name: default
          days: [ "Mon", "Tue", "Wed", "Thu" ]
          # start_hour is in UTC
          start_hour: 16
```

For example, a Teleport user with staging and production
environments might create a custom schedule that looks like this:

```yaml
kind: autoupdate_config
metadata:
  name: autoupdate-config
spec:
  agents:
    mode: enabled
    strategy: halt-on-error
    schedules:
      regular:
        - name: staging
          days: [ "Mon", "Tue", "Wed", "Thu" ]
          start_hour: 4
        - name: production
          days: [ "Mon", "Tue", "Wed", "Thu" ]
          start_hour: 5
          wait_hours: 24
```

This schedule would update agents in the `staging` group at 4 UTC, and then update
the `production` group at 5 UTC the next day. The `production` group will not execute
update until the staging group has updated. The `wait_hours` field sets a minimum
duration between groups, ensuring that `production` happens the day after `staging`,
and not one hour after.

<Notice type="warning">
While failed installations will revert automatically on the client-side,
server-side healthchecks are still in development. To prevent the `production`
group above from updating after `staging` has failed, you must manually suspend
the schedule by setting the `spec.agents.mode` to `suspended`.
</Notice>

You may wish to schedule groups of agents to update without any dependence between
them. For example, groups may represent geographic areas and not environments.
To accomplish this, you can change the default `halt-on-error` strategy to the
`time-based` strategy:

```yaml
kind: autoupdate_config
metadata:
  name: autoupdate-config
spec:
  agents:
    strategy: time-based
    maintenance_window_duration: 1h
    schedules:
      regular:
        - name: nyc
          days: [ "Mon", "Tue", "Wed", "Thu" ]
          start_hour: 4
        - name: sj
          days: [ "Mon", "Tue", "Wed", "Thu" ]
          start_hour: 20
```

With this strategy, updates to `sj` may occur before `nyc`, depending on when
new versions become available. The `maintenance_window_duration` restricts
updates to the specified duration after the `start_hour`. This ensures that
disruptions do not occur outside a known window.

The time-based strategy does not support the `wait_days` option.

To add agents to groups, run `teleport-update enable --group group-name`.
You may execute `teleport-update enable` repeatedly to change the group
(or other Managed Update settings).

<Admonition type="info" title="Cloud-hosting schedule constraints">
For cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise, the `days` are not configurable for most
customers, and the `start_hour` is defaulted to your selected maintenance window.

Cloud-hosted Teleport clusters also have a maximum of 5 update groups by default,
and a full update schedule must not be longer than 4 days. Those limitations
ensure that all your agents are updated weekly and that they stay
compatible with the Teleport cluster's version.
</Admonition>

### Setting the version (self-hosted only)

For cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise, Managed Updates are enabled by default.
The `autoupdate_version` resource is managed for you and cannot be edited.
This ensures your agents are always up-to-date and running the best version
for your Teleport cluster.

Self-hosted Teleport users must specify which version their agents should update
to via the `autoupdate_version` resource.

Create a file called `autoupdate_version.yaml` containing:

```yaml
kind: autoupdate_version
metadata:
  name: autoupdate-version
spec:
  agents:
    start_version: 17.2.0
    target_version: 17.2.1
    schedule: regular
    mode: enabled
```

This resource is used to deploy new versions of Teleport to your agents.
The cluster will update agents from `start_version` to `target_version`
according to the update schedule specified in the `autoupdate_config`.

The `schedule` may be changed from `regular` to `immediate` to force all
agents to update to the `target_version` immediately.

The `mode` is used to enable, disable, or suspend Managed Updates.
The `mode` may be set in both `autoupdate_version` or `autoupdate_config`,
such that `disabled` overrides `suspended`, which overrides `enabled` on either
side. The `mode` being specified in two places is useful when
`autoupdate_version` and `autoupdate_config` are not managed by the same team.

Run the following command to create or update the resource:

```code
$ tctl create autoupdate_version.yaml
```
## Migrating agents on Linux servers to Managed Updates

### Finding unmanaged agents

Use the `tctl inventory ls` command to list connected agents along with their current
version. Use the `--upgrader=none` flag to list agents that are not enrolled in managed
updates.

```code
$ tctl inventory ls --upgrader=none
Server ID                            Hostname      Services Version Upgrader
------------------------------------ ------------- -------- ------- --------
00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 ip-10-1-6-130 Node     v14.4.5 none
...
```

Use the `--upgrader=unit` flag to list agents that are using Managed Updates v1
and should be updated to Managed Updates v2:

```code
$ tctl inventory ls --upgrader=unit
Server ID                            Hostname      Services Version Upgrader
------------------------------------ ------------- -------- ------- --------
00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 ip-10-1-6-131 Node     v14.4.5 unit
...
```

Agents enrolled into Managed Updates v2 can be queried with the
`--upgrader=binary` flag.

### Enrolling unmanaged agents

1. For each agent ID returned by the `tctl inventory ls` command, copy the ID
   and run the following `tctl` command to access the host via `tsh`:

   ```code
   $ HOST=00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
   $ USER=root
   $ tsh ssh "${USER?}@${HOST?}"
   ```

1. Run `teleport-update enable` on each agent you would like
   to enroll into Managed Updates v2:

   ```code
   $ sudo teleport-update enable
   ```

1. Confirm that the version of the `teleport` binary is the one you expect:

   ```code
   $ teleport version
   ```

1. Remove the Managed Updates v1 updater if present:

   <Tabs>
   <TabItem label="DEB">

   ```code
   $ sudo apt remove teleport-ent-updater
   ```

   </TabItem>
   <TabItem label="RPM">

   ```code
   $ sudo yum remove teleport-ent-updater
   ```

   </TabItem>
   </Tabs>

<Details title="Running the agent as a non-root user">

If you changed the agent user to run as non-root, create
`/etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule` and grant ownership to your Teleport user:

```code
$ sudo mkdir -p /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/
$ sudo touch /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule
$ sudo chown your-teleport-user /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule
```

While `teleport-update` does not read this file, `teleport` will warn if it
cannot disable the Managed Update v1 updater using this file.

</Details>

## Enroll Kubernetes agents in Managed Updates

This section assumes that the name of your `teleport-kube-agent` release is
`teleport-agent`, and that you have installed it in the `teleport` namespace.

1. Add the following chart values to the values file for the
   `teleport-kube-agent` chart:

   ```yaml
   updater:
     enabled: true
   ```

1. Update the Teleport Helm repository to include any new versions of the
   `teleport-kube-agent` chart:

   ```code
   $ helm repo update teleport
   ```

1. Update the Helm chart release with the new values:

   <Tabs>
   <TabItem label="Cloud-Hosted">

   ```code
   $ helm -n <Var name="teleport" />  upgrade <Var name="teleport-agent" /> teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
   --values=values.yaml \
   --version="(=cloud.version=)"
   ```
   </TabItem>
   <TabItem label="Self-Hosted">

   ```code
   $ helm -n <Var name="teleport" />  upgrade <Var name="teleport-agent" /> teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
   --values=values.yaml \
   --version="(=teleport.version=)"
   ```
   </TabItem>
   </Tabs>

1. You can validate the updater is running properly by checking if its pod is
   ready:

   ```code
   $ kubectl -n teleport-agent get pods
   NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   <your-agent-release>-0                         1/1     Running   0          14m
   <your-agent-release>-1                         1/1     Running   0          14m
   <your-agent-release>-2                         1/1     Running   0          14m
   <your-agent-release>-updater-d9f97f5dd-v57g9   1/1     Running   0          16m
   ```

1. Check for any deployment issues by checking the updater logs:

   ```code
   $ kubectl -n <Var name="teleport" /> logs deployment/<Var name="teleport-agent" />-updater
   2023-04-28T13:13:30Z	INFO	StatefulSet is already up-to-date, not updating.	{"controller": "statefulset", "controllerGroup": "apps", "controllerKind": "StatefulSet", "StatefulSet": {"name":"my-agent","namespace":"agent"}, "namespace": "agent", "name": "my-agent", "reconcileID": "10419f20-a4c9-45d4-a16f-406866b7fc05", "namespacedname": "agent/my-agent", "kind": "StatefulSet", "err": "no new version (current: \"v12.2.3\", next: \"v12.2.3\")"}
   ```

## Troubleshooting

You can inspect the current agent autoupdate status by running:
```code
$ tctl autoupdate agents status

Agent autoupdate mode: enabled
Rollout creation date: 2025-02-24 16:01:44
Start version: 17.2.0
Target version: 17.2.1
Rollout state: Unstarted
Strategy: time-based

Group Name State     Start Time State Reason
---------- --------- ---------- --------------
default    Unstarted            outside_window
```

This rollout state is computed by each Auth Service instance every minute. An `autoupdate_config` or `autoupdate_version`
change might take up to a minute to be reflected and applied.

Teleport Agents are not updated immediately when a new version of Teleport is
released, and agent updates can lag behind the cluster by a few days.

If the Teleport Agent has not been automatically updating for several weeks, you
can consult the updater logs to help troubleshoot the problem:

### Troubleshooting managed agent upgrades on Kubernetes

The updater is a controller that periodically reconciles expected Kubernetes
resources with those in the cluster. The updater executes a reconciliation loop
every 30 minutes or in response to a Kubernetes event. If you don't want to wait
until the next reconciliation, you can trigger an event.

1. Any deployment update will send an event, so you can trigger the upgrader by
   annotating the resource:

   ```code
   $ kubectl -n <Var name="teleport" /> annotate statefulset/<Var name="teleport-agent" /> 'debug.teleport.dev/trigger-event=1'
   ```

1. To suspend Managed Updates for an agent, annotate the agent deployment
   with `teleport.dev/skipreconcile: "true"`, either by setting the
   `annotations.deployment` value in Helm, or by patching the deployment
   directly with `kubectl`.

### Troubleshooting managed agent upgrades on Linux

1. You can query the updater status by running:

   ```code
   $ teleport-update status
   proxy: teleport.example.com:443
   path: /usr/local/bin
   base_url: https://cdn.teleport.dev
   enabled: true
   pinned: false
   active:
       version: 17.2.0
       flags: [Enterprise]
   target:
       version: 17.2.1
       flags: [Enterprise]
   in_window: false
   jitter: 1m0s
   ```

   Here, the local active version is 17.2.0. The cluster's target version is
   17.2.1, but we are not in an update window, so the agent is not immediately
   updated.

```code
$ journalctl -u teleport-update
```

1. If an agent is not automatically updated, you can invoke the updater
   manually and look at its logs:

   ```code
   $ sudo teleport-update update --now
   ```
