docs/pages/upgrading/automatic-agent-updates.mdx, before:

---
title: Set up Automatic Agent Updates
description: Describes how to set up automatic agent updates.
---

On cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise accounts, users must set up automatic agent
updates to ensure that the version of Teleport running on agents remains
compatible with the version running on the Auth Service and Proxy Service. If an
agent does not maintain [version compatibility](./overview.mdx) with your
Teleport cluster, connections to those agents will become degraded or lost.

Cloud-hosted Teleport clusters are updated on a weekly basis. Major version
updates are performed every 4 months. You can monitor and subscribe to the
[Teleport Status](https://status.teleport.sh/) page to be notified of scheduled
updates.

Teleport supports automatic agent updates for systemd-based Linux distributions
using `apt`, `yum`, and `zypper` package managers, as well as Kubernetes
clusters. 

This guide explains how to enable automatic updates for Teleport agents on
Teleport Enterprise clusters, including both self-hosted and cloud-hosted
clusters.

## How it works

When automatic updates are enabled, a Teleport updater is installed alongside
each Teleport agent. The updater communicates with the Teleport Proxy Service to
determine when an update is available. When an update is available, the updater
will update the Teleport agent during the next maintenance window. However, if a
critical update is available, the Teleport agent will be updated outside the
regular maintenance window.

## Prerequisites

- A Teleport Enterprise cluster. If you do not have one, [sign
  up](https://goteleport.com/signup) for a free trial or consult the [Update
  Reference](./reference.mdx) to read about manual updates.
- Familiarity with the [Upgrading Compatibility Overview](./overview.mdx) guide,
  which describes the sequence in which to upgrade components in your cluster.
- Teleport agents that are not yet enrolled in automatic updates.
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl-tsh-prerequisite.mdx!)
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/4. Enable automatic agent upgrades

If you are running a cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise cluster, skip to [Step
2](#step-24-find-agents-to-enroll-in-automatic-updates).

Before enabling automatic upgrades in your self-hosted Teleport cluster, you
must enable a **version server**. This section shows you how to enable a version
server in your cluster. Automatic upgrades in self-hosted Teleport clusters
require at least v14.3.7 or v15.1.3. 

### Configure a maintenance schedule

To enable automatic upgrades in your cluster, you must create a cluster
maintenance configuration. This configures a maintenance schedule for the
Teleport cluster that agents use to determine when to check for upgrades.

1. Create a Teleport role that can manage cluster maintenance configurations
   through the `cluster_maintenance_config` dynamic resource. No preset Teleport
   roles provide this ability, so you will need to create one.

   Create a file called `cmc-editor.yaml` with the following content:

   ```yaml
   kind: role
   version: v7
   metadata:
     name: cmc-editor
   spec:
     allow:
       rules:
       - resources: ['cluster_maintenance_config']
         verbs: ['create', 'read', 'update', 'delete']
   ```

   Create the role resource:

   ```code
   $ tctl create cmd-editor.yaml
   ```

1. Add the role to your Teleport user:

  (!docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx!)

1. Create a cluster maintenance config in a file called `cmc.yaml`. The
   following example allows maintenance on Monday, Wednesday and Friday between
   02:00 and 03:00 UTC:

   (!docs/pages/includes/cluster-maintenance-config-spec.mdx!)

1. Apply the manifest using `tctl`:

   ```code
   $ tctl create cmc.yaml
   maintenance window has been updated
   ```

### [Optional] Assign the version served by the version server

By default, the version server has a single `default` channel, serving the
version of the Teleport Proxy Service. If you want to override the default
version or add other channels you can use the `automatic_upgrades_channels`
field in the Proxy Service configuration file:

```yaml
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  automatic_upgrades_channels:
    # Override the default version channel reachable at
    # https://<Var name="teleport.example.com:443" />/v1/webapi/automaticupgrades/channel/default/version
    default:
      static_version: v14.2.1
    # Define a new version channel with a static version reachable at
    # https://<Var name="teleport.example.com:443" />/v1/webapi/automaticupgrades/channel/m-static-channel/version
    my-static-channel:
      static_version: v14.2.0
    # Define a new version channel forwarding requests to an upstream version server
    my-remote-channel:
      forward_url: https://updates.releases.teleport.dev/v1/stable/cloud
```

You must ensure that all Proxy Service instances share the same
`automatic_upgrades_channels` configuration. If some Proxy Service instances are
configured differently, you will experience agents flickering between versions
as the version served is not consistent across instances.

If your Proxy Service public address is <Var name="teleport.example.com:443" />,
you can query the version server with the following command:

```code
$ curl "https://<Var name="teleport.example.com:443" />/v1/webapi/automaticupgrades/channel/default/version"
(=teleport.version=)
```

## Step 2/4. Find agents to enroll in automatic updates

Use the `tctl inventory ls` command to list connected agents along with their current
version. Use the `--upgrader=none` flag to list agents that are not enrolled in automatic
updates.

```code
$ tctl inventory ls --upgrader=none
Server ID                            Hostname      Services Version Upgrader
------------------------------------ ------------- -------- ------- --------
00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 ip-10-1-6-130 Node     v14.4.5 none
...
```

## Step 3/4. Enroll agents on Linux servers in automatic updates

1. For each agent ID returned by the `tctl inventory ls` command, copy the ID
   and run the following `tctl` command to access the host via `tsh`:

   ```code
   $ HOST=00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
   $ USER=root
   $ tsh ssh "${USER?}@${HOST?}"
   ```

1. Determine the Teleport version to install by querying the Teleport Proxy
   Service. This way, the Teleport installation has the same major version as
   the automatic updater. 

   Replace <Var name="example.teleport.sh" /> with the domain name of the
   Teleport Proxy Service and <Var name="stable/cloud" /> with the name of your
   automatic update channel. For cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise accounts, this
   is always `stable/cloud`:

   ```code
   $ TELEPORT_VERSION="$(curl https://<Var name="example.teleport.sh" />/v1/webapi/automaticupgrades/channel/<Var name="stable/cloud" />/version | sed 's/v//')"
   ```

1. Ensure that the Teleport repository is properly configured to use the <Var
   name="stable/cloud" /> channel, and install the `teleport-ent-updater`
   package. You must install `teleport-ent-updater` on each agent you would like
   to enroll into automatic updates:

   <Tabs>
   <TabItem label="Managed Teleport Enterprise">

   ```code
   $ curl https://goteleport.com/static/install.sh | bash -s ${TELEPORT_VERSION?} cloud
   ```

   </TabItem>
   <TabItem label="Self-Hosted Teleport Enterprise">

   ```code
   $ curl https://goteleport.com/static/install.sh | bash -s ${TELEPORT_VERSION?} enterprise
   ```

   </TabItem>
   </Tabs>

   The installation script detects the package manager on your Linux server and
   uses it to install Teleport binaries. To customize your installation, learn
   about the Teleport package repositories in the [installation
   guide](../installation.mdx#linux).

1. Confirm that the version of the `teleport` binary is the one you expect:

   ```code
   $ teleport version
   ```

<Details title="Running the agent as a non-root user">

If you changed the agent user to run as non-root, create
`/etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule` and grant ownership to your Teleport user:

```code
$ sudo mkdir -p /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/
$ sudo touch /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule
$ sudo chown <your-teleport-user> /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule
```

</Details>

1. Verify that the upgrader can see your version endpoint by checking for
   upgrades:

   ```code
   $ sudo teleport-upgrade dry-run
   ```
   
1. You should see one of the following messages, depending on the target version
   you are currently serving:
    
   ```text
   no upgrades available (1.2.3 == 1.2.3)
   an upgrade is available (1.2.3 -> 2.3.4)
   ```
    
   `teleport-upgrade` may display warnings about not having a valid upgrade
   schedule. This is expected immediately after install as the maintenance
   schedule might not be exported yet.

## Step 4/4. Enroll Kubernetes agents in automatic updates

This section assumes that the name of your `teleport-kube-agent` release is
`teleport-agent`, and that you have installed it in the `teleport` namespace.

1. Confirm that you are using the Teleport Enterprise edition of the
   `teleport-kube-agent` chart. You should see the following when you query your
   `teleport-kube-agent` release:

   ```code
   $ helm -n `teleport` get values `teleport-agent` -o json | jq '.enterprise'
   true
   ```

   If another value such as `null` is returned, update your existing agent
   `values.yaml` to use the Enterprise version:

   ```yaml
   enterprise: true
   ```

1. Add the following chart values to the values file for the
   `teleport-kube-agent` chart:

   ```yaml
   updater:
     enabled: true
   ```

1. Update the Teleport Helm repository to include any new versions of the
   `teleport-kube-agent` chart:

   ```code
   $ helm repo update teleport
   ```

1. Update the Helm chart release with the new values:

   <Tabs>
   <TabItem label="Cloud-Hosted">

   ```code
   $ helm -n <Var name="teleport" />  upgrade <Var name="teleport-agent" /> teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
   --values=values.yaml \
   --version=<Var name="(=cloud.version=)" />
   ```
   </TabItem>
   <TabItem label="Self-Hosted">

   ```code
   $ helm -n <Var name="teleport" />  upgrade <Var name="teleport-agent" /> teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
   --values=values.yaml \
   --version=<Var name="(=teleport.version=)" />
   ```
   </TabItem>
   </Tabs>

1. You can validate the updater is running properly by checking if its pod is
   ready:

   ```code
   $ kubectl -n teleport-agent get pods
   NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   <your-agent-release>-0                         1/1     Running   0          14m
   <your-agent-release>-1                         1/1     Running   0          14m
   <your-agent-release>-2                         1/1     Running   0          14m
   <your-agent-release>-updater-d9f97f5dd-v57g9   1/1     Running   0          16m
   ```
   
1. Check for any deployment issues by checking the updater logs:
   
    ```code
    $ kubectl -n <Var name="teleport" /> logs deployment/<Var name="teleport-agent" />-updater
    2023-04-28T13:13:30Z	INFO	StatefulSet is already up-to-date, not updating.	{"controller": "statefulset", "controllerGroup": "apps", "controllerKind": "StatefulSet", "StatefulSet": {"name":"my-agent","namespace":"agent"}, "namespace": "agent", "name": "my-agent", "reconcileID": "10419f20-a4c9-45d4-a16f-406866b7fc05", "namespacedname": "agent/my-agent", "kind": "StatefulSet", "err": "no new version (current: \"v12.2.3\", next: \"v12.2.3\")"}
    ```

## Troubleshooting

Teleport agents are not updated immediately when a new version of Teleport is
released, and agent updates can lag behind the cluster by a few days.

If the Teleport agent has not been automatically updating for several weeks, you
can consult the updater logs to help troubleshoot the problem:

```code
$ journalctl -u teleport-upgrade
```

### Troubleshooting automatic agent upgrades on Kubernetes

The updater is a controller that periodically reconciles expected Kubernetes
resources with those in the cluster. The updater executes a reconciliation loop
every 30 minutes or in response to a Kubernetes event. If you don't want to wait
until the next reconciliation, you can trigger an event. 

1. Any deployment update will send an event, so you can trigger the upgrader by
   annotating the resource:

   ```code
   $ kubectl -n <Var name="teleport" /> annotate statefulset/<Var name="teleport-agent" /> 'debug.teleport.dev/trigger-event=1'
   ```

1. To suspend automatic updates for an agent, annotate the agent deployment
   with `teleport.dev/skipreconcile: "true"`, either by setting the
   `annotations.deployment` value in Helm, or by patching the deployment
   directly with `kubectl`.

### Troubleshooting automatic agent upgrades on Linux

1. If an agent is not automatically upgraded, you can invoke the upgrader
   manually and look at its logs:

   ```code
   $ sudo teleport-upgrade run
   ```

1. To suspend automatic updates, disable the systemd timer:

   ```code
   $ sudo systemctl disable --now teleport-upgrade.timer
   ```

1. To enable and start the systemd timer after suspending:

   ```code
   $ sudo systemctl enable --now teleport-upgrade.timer
   ```

Commit message:

Fix automatic updater installation instructions (#44776)
Closes #43865

For self-hosted Teleport Enterprise users, the current instructions show
you how to use the one-line installation script to install Teleport on a
Linux server. This script does not install the updater if the second
argument is set to `enterprise`.

Instead, instruct the user to visit the Installation page section for
package managers, install the `teleport` binary, and use the package
manager to install the updater.

An alternative approach would be to use a nested `Tabs` component with
instructions for different package managers, but nested `Tabs` look
unsightly on our docs site.

docs/pages/upgrading/automatic-agent-updates.mdx, after:

---
title: Set up Automatic Agent Updates
description: Describes how to set up automatic agent updates.
---

On cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise accounts, users must set up automatic agent
updates to ensure that the version of Teleport running on agents remains
compatible with the version running on the Auth Service and Proxy Service. If an
agent does not maintain [version compatibility](./overview.mdx) with your
Teleport cluster, connections to those agents will become degraded or lost.

Cloud-hosted Teleport clusters are updated on a weekly basis. Major version
updates are performed every 4 months. You can monitor and subscribe to the
[Teleport Status](https://status.teleport.sh/) page to be notified of scheduled
updates.

Teleport supports automatic agent updates for systemd-based Linux distributions
using `apt`, `yum`, and `zypper` package managers, as well as Kubernetes
clusters. 

This guide explains how to enable automatic updates for Teleport agents on
Teleport Enterprise clusters, including both self-hosted and cloud-hosted
clusters.

## How it works

When automatic updates are enabled, a Teleport updater is installed alongside
each Teleport agent. The updater communicates with the Teleport Proxy Service to
determine when an update is available. When an update is available, the updater
will update the Teleport agent during the next maintenance window. However, if a
critical update is available, the Teleport agent will be updated outside the
regular maintenance window.

## Prerequisites

- A Teleport Enterprise cluster. If you do not have one, [sign
  up](https://goteleport.com/signup) for a free trial or consult the [Update
  Reference](./reference.mdx) to read about manual updates.
- Familiarity with the [Upgrading Compatibility Overview](./overview.mdx) guide,
  which describes the sequence in which to upgrade components in your cluster.
- Teleport agents that are not yet enrolled in automatic updates.
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl-tsh-prerequisite.mdx!)
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/4. Enable automatic agent upgrades

If you are running a cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise cluster, skip to [Step
2](#step-24-find-agents-to-enroll-in-automatic-updates).

Before enabling automatic upgrades in your self-hosted Teleport cluster, you
must enable a **version server**. This section shows you how to enable a version
server in your cluster. Automatic upgrades in self-hosted Teleport clusters
require at least v14.3.7 or v15.1.3. 

### Configure a maintenance schedule

To enable automatic upgrades in your cluster, you must create a cluster
maintenance configuration. This configures a maintenance schedule for the
Teleport cluster that agents use to determine when to check for upgrades.

1. Create a Teleport role that can manage cluster maintenance configurations
   through the `cluster_maintenance_config` dynamic resource. No preset Teleport
   roles provide this ability, so you will need to create one.

   Create a file called `cmc-editor.yaml` with the following content:

   ```yaml
   kind: role
   version: v7
   metadata:
     name: cmc-editor
   spec:
     allow:
       rules:
       - resources: ['cluster_maintenance_config']
         verbs: ['create', 'read', 'update', 'delete']
   ```

   Create the role resource:

   ```code
   $ tctl create cmd-editor.yaml
   ```

1. Add the role to your Teleport user:

  (!docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx!)

1. Create a cluster maintenance config in a file called `cmc.yaml`. The
   following example allows maintenance on Monday, Wednesday and Friday between
   02:00 and 03:00 UTC:

   (!docs/pages/includes/cluster-maintenance-config-spec.mdx!)

1. Apply the manifest using `tctl`:

   ```code
   $ tctl create cmc.yaml
   maintenance window has been updated
   ```

### [Optional] Assign the version served by the version server

By default, the version server has a single `default` channel, serving the
version of the Teleport Proxy Service. If you want to override the default
version or add other channels you can use the `automatic_upgrades_channels`
field in the Proxy Service configuration file:

```yaml
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  automatic_upgrades_channels:
    # Override the default version channel reachable at
    # https://<Var name="teleport.example.com:443" />/v1/webapi/automaticupgrades/channel/default/version
    default:
      static_version: v14.2.1
    # Define a new version channel with a static version reachable at
    # https://<Var name="teleport.example.com:443" />/v1/webapi/automaticupgrades/channel/m-static-channel/version
    my-static-channel:
      static_version: v14.2.0
    # Define a new version channel forwarding requests to an upstream version server
    my-remote-channel:
      forward_url: https://updates.releases.teleport.dev/v1/stable/cloud
```

You must ensure that all Proxy Service instances share the same
`automatic_upgrades_channels` configuration. If some Proxy Service instances are
configured differently, you will experience agents flickering between versions
as the version served is not consistent across instances.

If your Proxy Service public address is <Var name="teleport.example.com:443" />,
you can query the version server with the following command:

```code
$ curl "https://<Var name="teleport.example.com:443" />/v1/webapi/automaticupgrades/channel/default/version"
(=teleport.version=)
```

## Step 2/4. Find agents to enroll in automatic updates

Use the `tctl inventory ls` command to list connected agents along with their current
version. Use the `--upgrader=none` flag to list agents that are not enrolled in automatic
updates.

```code
$ tctl inventory ls --upgrader=none
Server ID                            Hostname      Services Version Upgrader
------------------------------------ ------------- -------- ------- --------
00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 ip-10-1-6-130 Node     v14.4.5 none
...
```

## Step 3/4. Enroll agents on Linux servers in automatic updates

1. For each agent ID returned by the `tctl inventory ls` command, copy the ID
   and run the following `tctl` command to access the host via `tsh`:

   ```code
   $ HOST=00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
   $ USER=root
   $ tsh ssh "${USER?}@${HOST?}"
   ```

1. Determine the Teleport version to install by querying the Teleport Proxy
   Service. This way, the Teleport installation has the same major version as
   the automatic updater. 

   Replace <Var name="example.teleport.sh" /> with the domain name of the
   Teleport Proxy Service and <Var name="stable/cloud" /> with the name of your
   automatic update channel. For cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise accounts, this
   is always `stable/cloud`:

   ```code
   $ TELEPORT_VERSION="$(curl https://<Var name="example.teleport.sh" />/v1/webapi/automaticupgrades/channel/<Var name="stable/cloud" />/version | sed 's/v//')"
   ```

1. Ensure that the Teleport repository is properly configured to use the <Var
   name="stable/cloud" /> channel, and install the `teleport-ent-updater`
   package. You must install `teleport-ent-updater` on each agent you would like
   to enroll into automatic updates:

   <Tabs>
   <TabItem label="Managed Teleport Enterprise">

   ```code
   $ curl https://goteleport.com/static/install.sh | bash -s ${TELEPORT_VERSION?} cloud
   ```

   </TabItem>
   <TabItem label="Self-Hosted Teleport Enterprise">

   1. Follow the instructions in the Teleport [installation
      guide](../installation.mdx#package-repositories) to install the `teleport`
      binary on your Linux server for your package manager.

   1. Using your package manager, install `teleport-ent-updater` on the
      server where you installed `teleport`. For example:

      ```code
      $ apt-get install -y teleport-ent-updater
      ```

   </TabItem>
   </Tabs>

   The installation script detects the package manager on your Linux server and
   uses it to install Teleport binaries. To customize your installation, learn
   about the Teleport package repositories in the [installation
   guide](../installation.mdx#linux).

1. Confirm that the version of the `teleport` binary is the one you expect:

   ```code
   $ teleport version
   ```

<Details title="Running the agent as a non-root user">

If you changed the agent user to run as non-root, create
`/etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule` and grant ownership to your Teleport user:

```code
$ sudo mkdir -p /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/
$ sudo touch /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule
$ sudo chown <your-teleport-user> /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule
```

</Details>

1. Verify that the upgrader can see your version endpoint by checking for
   upgrades:

   ```code
   $ sudo teleport-upgrade dry-run
   ```
   
1. You should see one of the following messages, depending on the target version
   you are currently serving:
    
   ```text
   no upgrades available (1.2.3 == 1.2.3)
   an upgrade is available (1.2.3 -> 2.3.4)
   ```
    
   `teleport-upgrade` may display warnings about not having a valid upgrade
   schedule. This is expected immediately after install as the maintenance
   schedule might not be exported yet.

## Step 4/4. Enroll Kubernetes agents in automatic updates

This section assumes that the name of your `teleport-kube-agent` release is
`teleport-agent`, and that you have installed it in the `teleport` namespace.

1. Confirm that you are using the Teleport Enterprise edition of the
   `teleport-kube-agent` chart. You should see the following when you query your
   `teleport-kube-agent` release:

   ```code
   $ helm -n `teleport` get values `teleport-agent` -o json | jq '.enterprise'
   true
   ```

   If another value such as `null` is returned, update your existing agent
   `values.yaml` to use the Enterprise version:

   ```yaml
   enterprise: true
   ```

1. Add the following chart values to the values file for the
   `teleport-kube-agent` chart:

   ```yaml
   updater:
     enabled: true
   ```

1. Update the Teleport Helm repository to include any new versions of the
   `teleport-kube-agent` chart:

   ```code
   $ helm repo update teleport
   ```

1. Update the Helm chart release with the new values:

   <Tabs>
   <TabItem label="Cloud-Hosted">

   ```code
   $ helm -n <Var name="teleport" />  upgrade <Var name="teleport-agent" /> teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
   --values=values.yaml \
   --version=<Var name="(=cloud.version=)" />
   ```
   </TabItem>
   <TabItem label="Self-Hosted">

   ```code
   $ helm -n <Var name="teleport" />  upgrade <Var name="teleport-agent" /> teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
   --values=values.yaml \
   --version=<Var name="(=teleport.version=)" />
   ```
   </TabItem>
   </Tabs>

1. You can validate the updater is running properly by checking if its pod is
   ready:

   ```code
   $ kubectl -n teleport-agent get pods
   NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   <your-agent-release>-0                         1/1     Running   0          14m
   <your-agent-release>-1                         1/1     Running   0          14m
   <your-agent-release>-2                         1/1     Running   0          14m
   <your-agent-release>-updater-d9f97f5dd-v57g9   1/1     Running   0          16m
   ```
   
1. Check for any deployment issues by checking the updater logs:
   
    ```code
    $ kubectl -n <Var name="teleport" /> logs deployment/<Var name="teleport-agent" />-updater
    2023-04-28T13:13:30Z	INFO	StatefulSet is already up-to-date, not updating.	{"controller": "statefulset", "controllerGroup": "apps", "controllerKind": "StatefulSet", "StatefulSet": {"name":"my-agent","namespace":"agent"}, "namespace": "agent", "name": "my-agent", "reconcileID": "10419f20-a4c9-45d4-a16f-406866b7fc05", "namespacedname": "agent/my-agent", "kind": "StatefulSet", "err": "no new version (current: \"v12.2.3\", next: \"v12.2.3\")"}
    ```

## Troubleshooting

Teleport agents are not updated immediately when a new version of Teleport is
released, and agent updates can lag behind the cluster by a few days.

If the Teleport agent has not been automatically updating for several weeks, you
can consult the updater logs to help troubleshoot the problem:

```code
$ journalctl -u teleport-upgrade
```

### Troubleshooting automatic agent upgrades on Kubernetes

The updater is a controller that periodically reconciles expected Kubernetes
resources with those in the cluster. The updater executes a reconciliation loop
every 30 minutes or in response to a Kubernetes event. If you don't want to wait
until the next reconciliation, you can trigger an event. 

1. Any deployment update will send an event, so you can trigger the upgrader by
   annotating the resource:

   ```code
   $ kubectl -n <Var name="teleport" /> annotate statefulset/<Var name="teleport-agent" /> 'debug.teleport.dev/trigger-event=1'
   ```

1. To suspend automatic updates for an agent, annotate the agent deployment
   with `teleport.dev/skipreconcile: "true"`, either by setting the
   `annotations.deployment` value in Helm, or by patching the deployment
   directly with `kubectl`.

### Troubleshooting automatic agent upgrades on Linux

1. If an agent is not automatically upgraded, you can invoke the upgrader
   manually and look at its logs:

   ```code
   $ sudo teleport-upgrade run
   ```

1. To suspend automatic updates, disable the systemd timer:

   ```code
   $ sudo systemctl disable --now teleport-upgrade.timer
   ```

1. To enable and start the systemd timer after suspending:

   ```code
   $ sudo systemctl enable --now teleport-upgrade.timer
   ```
