docs/pages/upgrading/upgrading-reference.mdx, before:

---
title: Upgrading Reference
description: Provides detailed information on upgrading Teleport in various situations.
tocDepth: 3
---

This guide explains how to upgrade components of a Teleport cluster in
non-standard situations. 

To ensure that your Teleport cluster remains up to date with the lowest amount
of manual overhead, we recommend [signing up](https://goteleport.com/signup) for
a cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise account and following [Enroll Agents in
Automatic Upgrades](./automatic-agent-updates.mdx). 

If your infrastructure does not support automatic agent updates, follow this
guide to determine the best approach for keeping your Teleport cluster up to
date. 

Before reading this guide, become familiar with the  [Upgrading Compatibility
Overview](./overview.mdx) guide, which describes the sequence in which to
upgrade components in your cluster.

## Working with the automatic updater

This section explains how to manage the automatic updater.

On Kubernetes deployments, the updater is a controller that periodically
reconciles expected Kubernetes resources with those in the cluster. On a Linux
server, the updater is an executable script called `teleport-upgrade`. 

### `teleport-upgrade` commands

The `teleport-upgrade` tool provides some basic commands to verify and perform an
update of the Teleport Agent.

```code
$ teleport-upgrade help
USAGE: /usr/sbin/teleport-upgrade <command>

Tool for automatic upgrades of Teleport Agents.

Commands:
  run           check for and potentially apply a teleport upgrade.
  dry-run       check for new teleport version but do not upgrade.
  force         performs an upgrade if an upgrade is available.
  version       print the current version of /usr/sbin/teleport-upgrade.
  help          show this help text.
```

The `dry-run` command can be used to check for an available update without performing
an update.
```code
# Example output when teleport is already on the latest compatible version.
$ teleport-upgrade dry-run
[i] no upgrades available (14.3.14 == 14.3.14) [ 582 ]

# Example output when an update is available.
$ teleport-upgrade dry-run
[i] an upgrade is available (13.4.14 -> 14.3.14) [ 585 ]
[i] within maintenance window, upgrade will be attempted. [ 596 ]
```

The `run` command performs an update if available.
```code
# Successful teleport update from 13.4.14 to 14.3.14.
$ teleport-upgrade run
[i] an upgrade is available (13.4.14 -> 14.3.14) [ 585 ]
[i] within maintenance window, upgrade will be attempted. [ 596 ]
[i] attempting apt install teleport-ent=14.3.14... [ 480 ]
[...]
[i] gracefully restarting Teleport (if already running) [ 449 ]

# Teleport updates are not attempted when outside the maintenance window.
$ teleport-upgrade run
[i] an upgrade is available (13.4.14 -> 14.3.14) [ 585 ]
[i] upgrade is non-critical and we are outside of maintenance window, not attempting. [ 618 ]
```

The `force` command performs an update immediately even when outside the maintenance
window.
```code
$ teleport-upgrade force
[i] an upgrade is available (13.4.14 -> 14.3.14) [ 585 ]
[i] attempting apt install teleport-ent=14.3.14... [ 480 ]
[...]
[i] gracefully restarting Teleport (if already running) [ 449 ]
```

### Configuring the `teleport-upgrade` tool

1. Create the upgrade configuration directory:
   
   ```code
   $ sudo mkdir -p /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/
   ```
   
1. If you changed the agent user to run as non-root, create
   `/etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule` and grant ownership to your Teleport user,
   assigning <Var name="your-teleport-user" /> to the name of your Teleport
   user. Otherwise, you can skip this step:
   
   ```code 
   $ sudo touch /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule 
   $ sudo chown <Var name="your-teleport-user" /> /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule 
   ```
   
   1. Configure the upgrader to connect to your version server and subscribe to
   the right release channel:
   
   ```code 
   $ echo "<Var name="teleport.example.com:443" />/v1/webapi/automaticupgrades/channel/default" | sudo tee /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/endpoint
   ```

   Make sure not to include `https://` as a prefix to the server address, nor
   suffix the endpoint with `/version`.

### Choosing a release channel

When [configuring the updater](#configuring-the-teleport-upgrade-tool), you can
select a release channel. 

The following channels are available for APT, YUM, and Zypper repos:

| Channel name      | Description                                                                                |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `stable/<major>`  | Receives releases for the specified major release line, i.e. `v(=teleport.major_version=)` |
| `stable/cloud`    | Rolling channel that receives releases compatible with current Cloud version               |
| `stable/rolling`  | Rolling channel that receives all published Teleport releases                              |
### Updating the updater

The updater is designed to be minimal and relatively stable, but the updater will
receive updates on occasion. Currently, the updater does not have the capability
to update itself. Updates to the `teleport-ent-updater` package must be done manually.

The `teleport-ent-updater` will be backwards compatible with older versions of Teleport,
so you can always update the `teleport-ent-updater` package to the latest available
version.

### Version locking

As of Teleport `15.1.10`, a version locking mechanism is enabled by the updater.
This mechanism locks the version of Teleport and prevents manual updates of the Teleport
package. This prevents unintentional updates during routine system maintenance, or
an accidental update by a user. The updater still has the capability to update the
Teleport package, and all updates of Teleport are expected to be performed by the
updater.

The version locking mechanism is implemented using the features of the package managers.
In case a user would like to manually update the Teleport version, this can be done
with the following commands.

With the `apt` package manager CLI, the `--allow-change-held-packages` flag must be provided
to bypass the version lock.
```code
$ apt-get install --allow-change-held-packages "teleport-ent=<target-version>"
```

With the `yum` package manager CLI, the `--disableexcludes="teleport"` flag must be provided
to bypass the version lock.
```code
$ yum install --disablerepo="*" --enablerepo="teleport" --disableexcludes="teleport" "teleport-ent-<target-version>"
```

With the `zypper` package manager CLI, the lock must be disabled and then re-enabled
after the update.
```code
$ zypper removelock "teleport-ent"
$ zypper install --repo="teleport" "teleport-ent-<target-version>"
$ zypper addlock "teleport-ent"
```

## Automatic update limitations

Automatic updates are not available in all Teleport editions and installation
methods. If you cannot use automatic updates, read [Manual
updates](#manual-updates) for possible steps.

### Automatic updates with Teleport Community Edition

Automatic updates is not currently supported with the community editions of Teleport.
Ensure that you are using the Teleport Enterprise edition of the `teleport-kube-agent`
chart. You should see the following when you query your `teleport-kube-agent` release:

```code
$ helm -n "teleport" get values "teleport-agent" -o json | jq '.enterprise'
true
```

### Automatic updates with direct binary installation

Automatic updates is not currently supported with the direct binary installation method.
Automatic updates is only supported with installations via the `apt`, `yum`, and
`zypper` package managers.

## Automatic updates with GitOps tools

Automatic updates are incompatible with some GitOps tools used for continuous
deployment.  The `teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart owns the version of the
`teleport-agent` resource, so when the `teleport-agent-updater` modifies the
image version of the `teleport-agent` resource, the GitOps tool will detect a
drift or a diff in the `teleport-agent` resource.

### ArgoCD deployments

After an automatic update, ArgoCD reports the `teleport-agent` resource as `OutOfSync`.
As a workaround to this problem use a [Diff Customization](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/diffing/#diffing-customization)
to ignore the difference in image version. Here is an example deployment using the
name `teleport-agent` and namespace `teleport`.

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: teleport-agent
  namespace: teleport
spec
  ignoreDifferences:
  - group: apps
    kind: StatefulSet
    name: teleport-agent
    namespace: teleport
    jqPathExpressions:
    - .spec.template.spec.containers[] | select(.name == "teleport").image
...
```

### FluxCD deployments

After an automatic update, FluxCD reports a `DriftDetected` event. As a workaround
to this problem modify the [drift detection](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/helm/helmreleases/#drift-detection)
configuration to ignore the difference in image version. Here is an example deployment
using the name `teleport-agent` and namespace `teleport`.

```yaml
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta2
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: teleport-agent
  namespace: teleport
spec
  driftDetection:
    mode: enabled
    ignore:
    - paths: ["/spec/template/spec/containers/0/image"]
      target:
        kind: StatefulSet
        name: teleport-agent
        namespace: teleport
...
```

## Manual updates

This section shows you how to upgrade Teleport manually. You can perform manual
upgrades on Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service instances running in
self-hosted clusters, as well as all Teleport Agents.

### Teleport Agents

1. Identify the latest compatible Teleport Agent version by querying the
   `webapi` endpoint of the Teleport Proxy Service, replacing 
   <Var name="teleport.example.com:443" /> with the host and port of your
   Teleport account or Teleport Proxy Service:

   ```code
   $ curl https://<Var name="teleport.example.com:443" />/webapi/automaticupgrades/channel/stable/cloud/version
   v15.2.1
   ```

1. Use the `tctl inventory ls` command to list connected agents along with their
   current version. Use the `--older-than` flag to list agents that are
   upgradable:

   ```code
   $ tctl inventory ls --older-than=v15.2.1
   Server ID                            Hostname       Services       Version Upgrader
   ------------------------------------ -------------- -------------- ------- --------
   00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 ip-10-1-6-130  Node           v14.4.5 none
   00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001 teleport-proxy Proxy          v15.2.0 none
   00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000002 teleport-auth  Auth,Discovery v15.2.0 none
   ...
   ```

1. For each agent ID returned by the `tctl inventory ls` command, copy the ID
   and run the following `tctl` command to access the host via `tsh`:

   ```code
   $ HOST=00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
   $ USER=root
   $ tsh ssh "${USER?}@${HOST?}"
   ```

1. On each Linux server, follow the instructions in the [next
   section](#single-teleport-binaries-on-linux-servers) to install the new
   version of the `teleport` binary.

1. If you have deployed any agents on Kubernetes using the `teleport-kube-agent`
   Helm chart, [follow the instructions](#teleport-agents-running-on-kubernetes)
   to upgrade the Helm release.

### Single Teleport binaries on Linux servers

You can upgrade a single Teleport binary running on a Linux host by running the
one-line installation script with a higher version than the current one.

Before upgrading Teleport across a self-hosted cluster, read the [Compatibility
Overview](./overview.mdx) to ensure you are upgrading components in
the correct order.

Complete the following steps on all servers that run the Auth Service and Proxy
Service, then on each of your agents:

1. Get the current version:

   ```code
   $ teleport version
   ```

1. Assign <Var name="edition" /> to one of the following, depending on your
   Teleport edition:

   | Edition                           | Value        |
   |-----------------------------------|--------------|
   | Teleport Enterprise (Cloud)       | `cloud`      |
   | Teleport Enterprise (Self-Hosted) | `enterprise` |
   | Teleport Community Edition        | `oss`        |

1. Assign <Var name="version" /> to the version you want to install.

1. Install the new Teleport version on your Linux server:

   ```code
   $ curl (=teleport.teleport_install_script_url=) | bash -s <Var name="version" /> <Var name="edition" />
   ```

   The installation script detects the package manager on your Linux server and
   uses it to install Teleport binaries. To customize your installation, learn
   about the Teleport package repositories in the [installation
   guide](../installation.mdx#linux).

1. Confirm that the version of the `teleport` binary is the one you expect:

   ```code
   $ teleport version
   ```

1. Now that you have installed a more recent `teleport` binary on your Auth
   Service and Proxy Service instances, restart Teleport on these servers to run
   the new version.

   (!docs/pages/includes/start-teleport.mdx!)

### Self-hosted Teleport clusters on Kubernetes

The instructions in this section assume that you have configured the
`teleport-cluster` Helm chart with a values file called `values.yaml`, and that
your `teleport-cluster` release is called `teleport-cluster`.

1. Shrink the Auth Service pool. You must reduce the number of Auth Service
   instances to one in order to ensure a consistent cluster state during the
   upgrade.

   Ensure that your `teleport-cluster` values file includes the following
   configuration:
   
   ```yaml
   auth:
     highAvailability:
       replicaCount: 1
   ```

1. Update the Teleport Helm chart repository so you can install the latest
   version of the `teleport-cluster` chart:

   (!docs/pages/includes/kubernetes-access/helm/helm-repo-add.mdx!)

1. Upgrade the `teleport-cluster` Helm release:

   ```code
   $ helm upgrade teleport-cluster teleport/teleport-cluster \
     --version=<Var name="(=teleport.version=)" /> \
     --values=values.yaml
   ```

   The `teleport-cluster` Helm chart automatically waits for the previous
   version of the Proxy Service to stop responding to requests before running a
   new version of the Auth Service.

1. Once you have completed this guide and upgraded the cluster, you can
   configure your cluster for high availability again.

### Teleport Agents running on Kubernetes

The instructions in this section assume that you have configured the
`teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart with a values file called `values.yaml`, and
that your `teleport-kube-agent` release is called `teleport-agent`.

1. Update the Teleport Helm chart repository so you can install the latest
   version of the `teleport-kube-agent` chart:

   (!docs/pages/includes/kubernetes-access/helm/helm-repo-add.mdx!)

1. Upgrade the Helm release:

   ```code
   $ helm -n "teleport" upgrade teleport-agent teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
     --values=values.yaml \
     --version=<Var name="(=teleport.version=)" />
   ```

Commit message:

[teleport-update] Agent managed updates documentation (#52024) (#52640)
* docs wip

* wip 2

* wip 3

* remove roles

* wip

* wip 4

* wip 5

* wip 6

* cli 1

* next

* cli ref

* Autoupdate docs edition:

- ban subjective and marketting words such as "new", "old", "original",
  "next-generation", "previous", and consolidate to Managed Updates v1/v2
- change the installation snippets to document the unified installer
  (except the linux-cloud one).
- change the autoupdate architecture page to reflect the design changes
  between v1 and v2
- make the autoupdate v2 guide not Cloud-specific
- fix configuration examples
- add troublshooting commands

* Fix broken links

* managed updates -> Managed Updates

* fixup! Fix broken links

* finish teleport-update reference, fix typo

* Add unified installer + align names + fix typos

* style feedback

* title fixes

* cleanup

* lint

* Address feedback + fix spell + fix bash command



* Simplify install script docs + fix links



* try to appease linter

* fixup! try to appease linter

* Apply suggestions from code review



* Address final feedback

---------

Signed-off-by: hugoShaka <hugo.hervieux@goteleport.com>
Co-authored-by: Stephen Levine <stephen.levine@goteleport.com>
Co-authored-by: Paul Gottschling <paul.gottschling@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/upgrading/upgrading-reference.mdx, after:

---
title: Upgrading Reference
description: Provides detailed information on upgrading Teleport in various situations.
tocDepth: 3
---

<Notice type="warning">
This document describes the Managed Updates v1 Teleport Agent updater, which is
currently supported but will be deprecated after the [Managed update v2 updater
](./agent-managed-updates.mdx) is generally available.
</Notice>

This guide explains how to upgrade components of a Teleport cluster in
non-standard situations. 

To ensure that your Teleport cluster remains up to date with the lowest amount
of manual overhead, we recommend [signing up](https://goteleport.com/signup) for
a cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise account and following [Enroll Agents in
Automatic Upgrades](./agent-managed-updates.mdx). 

If your infrastructure does not support automatic agent updates, follow this
guide to determine the best approach for keeping your Teleport cluster up to
date. 

Before reading this guide, become familiar with the  [Upgrading Compatibility
Overview](./overview.mdx) guide, which describes the sequence in which to
upgrade components in your cluster.

## Working with the automatic updater

This section explains how to manage the automatic updater.

On Kubernetes deployments, the updater is a controller that periodically
reconciles expected Kubernetes resources with those in the cluster. On a Linux
server, the updater is an executable script called `teleport-upgrade`. 

### `teleport-upgrade` commands

The `teleport-upgrade` tool provides some basic commands to verify and perform an
update of the Teleport Agent.

```code
$ teleport-upgrade help
USAGE: /usr/sbin/teleport-upgrade <command>

Tool for automatic upgrades of Teleport Agents.

Commands:
  run           check for and potentially apply a teleport upgrade.
  dry-run       check for new teleport version but do not upgrade.
  force         performs an upgrade if an upgrade is available.
  version       print the current version of /usr/sbin/teleport-upgrade.
  help          show this help text.
```

The `dry-run` command can be used to check for an available update without performing
an update.
```code
# Example output when teleport is already on the latest compatible version.
$ teleport-upgrade dry-run
[i] no upgrades available (14.3.14 == 14.3.14) [ 582 ]

# Example output when an update is available.
$ teleport-upgrade dry-run
[i] an upgrade is available (13.4.14 -> 14.3.14) [ 585 ]
[i] within maintenance window, upgrade will be attempted. [ 596 ]
```

The `run` command performs an update if available.
```code
# Successful teleport update from 13.4.14 to 14.3.14.
$ teleport-upgrade run
[i] an upgrade is available (13.4.14 -> 14.3.14) [ 585 ]
[i] within maintenance window, upgrade will be attempted. [ 596 ]
[i] attempting apt install teleport-ent=14.3.14... [ 480 ]
[...]
[i] gracefully restarting Teleport (if already running) [ 449 ]

# Teleport updates are not attempted when outside the maintenance window.
$ teleport-upgrade run
[i] an upgrade is available (13.4.14 -> 14.3.14) [ 585 ]
[i] upgrade is non-critical and we are outside of maintenance window, not attempting. [ 618 ]
```

The `force` command performs an update immediately even when outside the maintenance
window.
```code
$ teleport-upgrade force
[i] an upgrade is available (13.4.14 -> 14.3.14) [ 585 ]
[i] attempting apt install teleport-ent=14.3.14... [ 480 ]
[...]
[i] gracefully restarting Teleport (if already running) [ 449 ]
```

### Configuring the `teleport-upgrade` tool

1. Create the upgrade configuration directory:
   
   ```code
   $ sudo mkdir -p /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/
   ```
   
1. If you changed the agent user to run as non-root, create
   `/etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule` and grant ownership to your Teleport user,
   assigning <Var name="your-teleport-user" /> to the name of your Teleport
   user. Otherwise, you can skip this step:
   
   ```code 
   $ sudo touch /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule 
   $ sudo chown <Var name="your-teleport-user" /> /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule 
   ```
   
   1. Configure the upgrader to connect to your version server and subscribe to
   the right release channel:
   
   ```code 
   $ echo "<Var name="teleport.example.com:443" />/v1/webapi/automaticupgrades/channel/default" | sudo tee /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/endpoint
   ```

   Make sure not to include `https://` as a prefix to the server address, nor
   suffix the endpoint with `/version`.

### Choosing a release channel

When [configuring the updater](#configuring-the-teleport-upgrade-tool), you can
select a release channel. 

The following channels are available for APT, YUM, and Zypper repos:

| Channel name      | Description                                                                                |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `stable/<major>`  | Receives releases for the specified major release line, i.e. `v(=teleport.major_version=)` |
| `stable/cloud`    | Rolling channel that receives releases compatible with current Cloud version               |
| `stable/rolling`  | Rolling channel that receives all published Teleport releases                              |
### Updating the updater

The updater is designed to be minimal and relatively stable, but the updater will
receive updates on occasion. Currently, the updater does not have the capability
to update itself. Updates to the `teleport-ent-updater` package must be done manually.

The `teleport-ent-updater` will be backwards compatible with older versions of Teleport,
so you can always update the `teleport-ent-updater` package to the latest available
version.

### Version locking

As of Teleport `15.1.10`, a version locking mechanism is enabled by the updater.
This mechanism locks the version of Teleport and prevents manual updates of the Teleport
package. This prevents unintentional updates during routine system maintenance, or
an accidental update by a user. The updater still has the capability to update the
Teleport package, and all updates of Teleport are expected to be performed by the
updater.

The version locking mechanism is implemented using the features of the package managers.
In case a user would like to manually update the Teleport version, this can be done
with the following commands.

With the `apt` package manager CLI, the `--allow-change-held-packages` flag must be provided
to bypass the version lock.
```code
$ apt-get install --allow-change-held-packages "teleport-ent=<target-version>"
```

With the `yum` package manager CLI, the `--disableexcludes="teleport"` flag must be provided
to bypass the version lock.
```code
$ yum install --disablerepo="*" --enablerepo="teleport" --disableexcludes="teleport" "teleport-ent-<target-version>"
```

With the `zypper` package manager CLI, the lock must be disabled and then re-enabled
after the update.
```code
$ zypper removelock "teleport-ent"
$ zypper install --repo="teleport" "teleport-ent-<target-version>"
$ zypper addlock "teleport-ent"
```

## Automatic update limitations

Automatic updates are not available in all Teleport editions and installation
methods. If you cannot use automatic updates, read [Manual
updates](#manual-updates) for possible steps.

### Automatic updates with Teleport Community Edition

Automatic updates is not currently supported with the community editions of Teleport.
Ensure that you are using the Teleport Enterprise edition of the `teleport-kube-agent`
chart. You should see the following when you query your `teleport-kube-agent` release:

```code
$ helm -n "teleport" get values "teleport-agent" -o json | jq '.enterprise'
true
```

### Automatic updates with direct binary installation

Automatic updates is not currently supported with the direct binary installation method.
Automatic updates is only supported with installations via the `apt`, `yum`, and
`zypper` package managers.

## Automatic updates with GitOps tools

Automatic updates are incompatible with some GitOps tools used for continuous
deployment.  The `teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart owns the version of the
`teleport-agent` resource, so when the `teleport-agent-updater` modifies the
image version of the `teleport-agent` resource, the GitOps tool will detect a
drift or a diff in the `teleport-agent` resource.

### ArgoCD deployments

After an automatic update, ArgoCD reports the `teleport-agent` resource as `OutOfSync`.
As a workaround to this problem use a [Diff Customization](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/diffing/#diffing-customization)
to ignore the difference in image version. Here is an example deployment using the
name `teleport-agent` and namespace `teleport`.

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: teleport-agent
  namespace: teleport
spec
  ignoreDifferences:
  - group: apps
    kind: StatefulSet
    name: teleport-agent
    namespace: teleport
    jqPathExpressions:
    - .spec.template.spec.containers[] | select(.name == "teleport").image
...
```

### FluxCD deployments

After an automatic update, FluxCD reports a `DriftDetected` event. As a workaround
to this problem modify the [drift detection](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/helm/helmreleases/#drift-detection)
configuration to ignore the difference in image version. Here is an example deployment
using the name `teleport-agent` and namespace `teleport`.

```yaml
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta2
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: teleport-agent
  namespace: teleport
spec
  driftDetection:
    mode: enabled
    ignore:
    - paths: ["/spec/template/spec/containers/0/image"]
      target:
        kind: StatefulSet
        name: teleport-agent
        namespace: teleport
...
```

## Manual updates

This section shows you how to upgrade Teleport manually. You can perform manual
upgrades on Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service instances running in
self-hosted clusters, as well as all Teleport Agents.

### Teleport Agents

1. Identify the latest compatible Teleport Agent version by querying the
   `webapi` endpoint of the Teleport Proxy Service, replacing 
   <Var name="teleport.example.com:443" /> with the host and port of your
   Teleport account or Teleport Proxy Service:

   ```code
   $ curl https://<Var name="teleport.example.com:443" />/webapi/automaticupgrades/channel/stable/cloud/version
   v15.2.1
   ```

1. Use the `tctl inventory ls` command to list connected agents along with their
   current version. Use the `--older-than` flag to list agents that are
   upgradable:

   ```code
   $ tctl inventory ls --older-than=v15.2.1
   Server ID                            Hostname       Services       Version Upgrader
   ------------------------------------ -------------- -------------- ------- --------
   00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 ip-10-1-6-130  Node           v14.4.5 none
   00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001 teleport-proxy Proxy          v15.2.0 none
   00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000002 teleport-auth  Auth,Discovery v15.2.0 none
   ...
   ```

1. For each agent ID returned by the `tctl inventory ls` command, copy the ID
   and run the following `tctl` command to access the host via `tsh`:

   ```code
   $ HOST=00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
   $ USER=root
   $ tsh ssh "${USER?}@${HOST?}"
   ```

1. On each Linux server, follow the instructions in the [next
   section](#single-teleport-binaries-on-linux-servers) to install the new
   version of the `teleport` binary.

1. If you have deployed any agents on Kubernetes using the `teleport-kube-agent`
   Helm chart, [follow the instructions](#teleport-agents-running-on-kubernetes)
   to upgrade the Helm release.

### Single Teleport binaries on Linux servers

You can upgrade a single Teleport binary running on a Linux host by running the
one-line installation script with a higher version than the current one.

Before upgrading Teleport across a self-hosted cluster, read the [Compatibility
Overview](./overview.mdx) to ensure you are upgrading components in
the correct order.

Complete the following steps on all servers that run the Auth Service and Proxy
Service, then on each of your agents:

1. Get the current version:

   ```code
   $ teleport version
   ```

1. Assign <Var name="edition" /> to one of the following, depending on your
   Teleport edition:

   | Edition                           | Value        |
   |-----------------------------------|--------------|
   | Teleport Enterprise (Cloud)       | `cloud`      |
   | Teleport Enterprise (Self-Hosted) | `enterprise` |
   | Teleport Community Edition        | `oss`        |

1. Assign <Var name="version" /> to the version you want to install.

1. Install the new Teleport version on your Linux server:

   ```code
   $ curl (=teleport.teleport_install_script_url=) | bash -s <Var name="version" /> <Var name="edition" />
   ```

   The installation script detects the package manager on your Linux server and
   uses it to install Teleport binaries. To customize your installation, learn
   about the Teleport package repositories in the [installation
   guide](../installation.mdx#linux).

1. Confirm that the version of the `teleport` binary is the one you expect:

   ```code
   $ teleport version
   ```

1. Now that you have installed a more recent `teleport` binary on your Auth
   Service and Proxy Service instances, restart Teleport on these servers to run
   the new version.

   (!docs/pages/includes/start-teleport.mdx!)

### Self-hosted Teleport clusters on Kubernetes

The instructions in this section assume that you have configured the
`teleport-cluster` Helm chart with a values file called `values.yaml`, and that
your `teleport-cluster` release is called `teleport-cluster`.

1. Shrink the Auth Service pool. You must reduce the number of Auth Service
   instances to one in order to ensure a consistent cluster state during the
   upgrade.

   Ensure that your `teleport-cluster` values file includes the following
   configuration:
   
   ```yaml
   auth:
     highAvailability:
       replicaCount: 1
   ```

1. Update the Teleport Helm chart repository so you can install the latest
   version of the `teleport-cluster` chart:

   (!docs/pages/includes/kubernetes-access/helm/helm-repo-add.mdx!)

1. Upgrade the `teleport-cluster` Helm release:

   ```code
   $ helm upgrade teleport-cluster teleport/teleport-cluster \
     --version=<Var name="(=teleport.version=)" /> \
     --values=values.yaml
   ```

   The `teleport-cluster` Helm chart automatically waits for the previous
   version of the Proxy Service to stop responding to requests before running a
   new version of the Auth Service.

1. Once you have completed this guide and upgraded the cluster, you can
   configure your cluster for high availability again.

### Teleport Agents running on Kubernetes

The instructions in this section assume that you have configured the
`teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart with a values file called `values.yaml`, and
that your `teleport-kube-agent` release is called `teleport-agent`.

1. Update the Teleport Helm chart repository so you can install the latest
   version of the `teleport-kube-agent` chart:

   (!docs/pages/includes/kubernetes-access/helm/helm-repo-add.mdx!)

1. Upgrade the Helm release:

   ```code
   $ helm -n "teleport" upgrade teleport-agent teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
     --values=values.yaml \
     --version=<Var name="(=teleport.version=)" />
   ```
