docs/pages/reference/access-controls/authentication.mdx, before:

---
title: Authentication options
description: A reference for Teleport's authentication connectors
---

Teleport authenticates users either via the Proxy Service or with an identity
provider via **authentication connectors**.

## Local (no authentication connector)

Local authentication is used to authenticate against a local Teleport user
database. This database is managed by the [`tctl
users`](../cli/tctl.mdx) command. Teleport also supports
multi-factor authentication (MFA) for the local connector. There are several
possible values (types) of MFA:

- `otp` is the default. It implements the [TOTP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time-based_One-time_Password_Algorithm)
  standard. You can use [Google Authenticator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Authenticator), [Authy](https://www.authy.com/) or any other TOTP client.
- `webauthn` implements the [Web Authentication standard](https://webauthn.guide) for utilizing
  multi-factor authenticators and hardware devices.
  You can use [YubiKeys](https://www.yubico.com/), [SoloKeys](https://solokeys.com/) or any other authenticator that
  implements FIDO2 or FIDO U2F standards.
  See our [Harden your Cluster Against IdP Compromises](../../admin-guides/access-controls/guides/webauthn.mdx) guide for detailed
  instructions on setting up WebAuthn for Teleport.
- `on` enables both TOTP and WebAuthn, and all local users are required to have at least one MFA device registered.
- `optional` enables both TOTP and WebAuthn but makes it optional for users. Local users that register a MFA device will
  be prompted for it during login. This option is useful when you need to gradually enable MFA usage before switching
  the value to `on`.
- `off` turns off multi-factor authentication.

<Admonition type="note">
  If you are using Teleport with a Single Sign-On solution, users can also register MFA devices, but Teleport will not prompt them for MFA during login. MFA for SSO users should be handled by the SSO provider.
</Admonition>

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise", "oss"]} label="Self-Hosted">

You can modify these settings either using a static configuration file or
dynamic configuration resources.

### Static configuration

Add the following to your Teleport configuration file, which is stored in
`/etc/teleport.yaml` by default.

  ```yaml
  auth_service:
    authentication:
      type: local
      second_factors: ["webauthn"]
      webauthn:
        rp_id: example.teleport.sh
  ```

### Dynamic resource

Edit your `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```code
$ tctl edit cap
```

Ensure that the resource includes the following content:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factors: ["webauthn"]
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.teleport.sh
version: v2
```

Save and close the file in your editor to apply changes.

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud","team"]} label="Cloud-Hosted">

You can modify these settings using dynamic configuration resources.

Log in to Teleport from your local machine so you can use the `tctl` admin tool:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=myinstance.teleport.sh
$ tctl status
```

Edit your `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```code
$ tctl edit cap
```

Ensure that `cap.yaml` includes the following content:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factors: ["webauthn"]
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.teleport.sh
version: v2
```

Save and close the file in your editor to apply changes.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Local user policies

Teleport requires that passwords for local users be at least 12 characters long.

Additionally, Teleport will lock local user accounts if there are multiple
failed login attempts within a 30-minute window. The account will remain locked
for 30 minutes before the user can attempt to log in again.

Overriding a block is available to users with rights to maintain `user` resources,
available in the built-in `editor` role. To turn off a block, update the user entry,
following these steps.

Open the user resource in your editor:

```code
$ tctl edit users/<Var name="username" />
```

The resource should resemble the following:

```yaml
kind: user
metadata:
  name: jeff
spec:
  roles:
  - access
  status:
    is_locked: true
    lock_expires: "2023-04-22T01:55:02.228158166Z"
    locked_message: user has exceeded maximum failed login attempts
version: v2
```

Update the `is_locked` field under `status` to `false`, save the file, and close
your editor.

The user will now be unblocked from login attempts and can attempt to authenticate again.

## Authentication connectors

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Enterprise Cloud">

### GitHub

This connector implements GitHub's OAuth 2.0 authentication flow. Please refer to GitHub's documentation on [Creating an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/)
to learn how to create and register an OAuth app.

Here is an example of this setting in a `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: github
version: v2
```

See [GitHub OAuth 2.0](../../admin-guides/access-controls/sso/github-sso.mdx) for details on how to configure it.

### SAML

This connector type implements SAML authentication. It can be configured against any external identity manager like Okta or Auth0.

Here is an example of this setting in a `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: saml
version: v2
```

### OIDC

Teleport implements OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication.

Here is an example of this setting in a `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: oidc
version: v2
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise"]} label="Enterprise">

### GitHub

This connector implements GitHub's OAuth 2.0 authentication flow. Please refer to GitHub's documentation on [Creating an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/)
to learn how to create and register an OAuth app.

Here is an example of this setting in the `teleport.yaml` :

```yaml
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: github
```

See [GitHub OAuth 2.0](../../admin-guides/access-controls/sso/github-sso.mdx) for details on how to configure it.

### SAML

This connector type implements SAML authentication. It can be configured against any external identity manager like Okta or Auth0.

Here is an example of this setting in the `teleport.yaml` :

```yaml
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: saml
```

### OIDC

Teleport implements OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication, which is similar to SAML in principle.

Here is an example of this setting in the `teleport.yaml` :

```yaml
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: oidc
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["oss"]} label="Open Source">

### GitHub

This connector implements GitHub's OAuth 2.0 authentication flow. Please refer to GitHub's documentation on [Creating an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/)
to learn how to create and register an OAuth app.

Here is an example of this setting in the `teleport.yaml` :

```yaml
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: github
```

See [GitHub OAuth 2.0](../../admin-guides/access-controls/sso/github-sso.mdx) for details on how to configure it.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Require displaying a message of the day

Teleport can display a custom message of the day (MOTD) for users prior to authenticating
in the Teleport Web UI and CLI. 

### Self-Hosted

Add the following to your Teleport configuration file, which is stored in
`/etc/teleport.yaml` by default.

```yaml
auth_service:
  message_of_the_day: |
    Welcome to the Example Teleport Cluster
    All activity is monitored and should follow organization policies
```

Restart the Teleport Auth Service instances to apply this change.

### Teleport Enterprise Cloud/Dynamic

Edit your `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```code
$ tctl edit cap
```

Ensure that the resource includes the `message_of_the_day` field:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  message_of_the_day: |
    Welcome to the Example Teleport Cluster
    All activity is monitored and should follow organization policies
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.teleport.sh
version: v2
```

Save and close the file in your editor to apply changes.

Commit message:

Fix 18 Vale warnings related to Var components (#52810)
`Var` components with a particular `name` should have multiple instances
in a given page.

docs/pages/reference/access-controls/authentication.mdx, after:

---
title: Authentication options
description: A reference for Teleport's authentication connectors
---

Teleport authenticates users either via the Proxy Service or with an identity
provider via **authentication connectors**.

## Local (no authentication connector)

Local authentication is used to authenticate against a local Teleport user
database. This database is managed by the [`tctl
users`](../cli/tctl.mdx) command. Teleport also supports
multi-factor authentication (MFA) for the local connector. There are several
possible values (types) of MFA:

- `otp` is the default. It implements the [TOTP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time-based_One-time_Password_Algorithm)
  standard. You can use [Google Authenticator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Authenticator), [Authy](https://www.authy.com/) or any other TOTP client.
- `webauthn` implements the [Web Authentication standard](https://webauthn.guide) for utilizing
  multi-factor authenticators and hardware devices.
  You can use [YubiKeys](https://www.yubico.com/), [SoloKeys](https://solokeys.com/) or any other authenticator that
  implements FIDO2 or FIDO U2F standards.
  See our [Harden your Cluster Against IdP Compromises](../../admin-guides/access-controls/guides/webauthn.mdx) guide for detailed
  instructions on setting up WebAuthn for Teleport.
- `on` enables both TOTP and WebAuthn, and all local users are required to have at least one MFA device registered.
- `optional` enables both TOTP and WebAuthn but makes it optional for users. Local users that register a MFA device will
  be prompted for it during login. This option is useful when you need to gradually enable MFA usage before switching
  the value to `on`.
- `off` turns off multi-factor authentication.

<Admonition type="note">
  If you are using Teleport with a Single Sign-On solution, users can also register MFA devices, but Teleport will not prompt them for MFA during login. MFA for SSO users should be handled by the SSO provider.
</Admonition>

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise", "oss"]} label="Self-Hosted">

You can modify these settings either using a static configuration file or
dynamic configuration resources.

### Static configuration

Add the following to your Teleport configuration file, which is stored in
`/etc/teleport.yaml` by default.

  ```yaml
  auth_service:
    authentication:
      type: local
      second_factors: ["webauthn"]
      webauthn:
        rp_id: example.teleport.sh
  ```

### Dynamic resource

Edit your `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```code
$ tctl edit cap
```

Ensure that the resource includes the following content:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factors: ["webauthn"]
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.teleport.sh
version: v2
```

Save and close the file in your editor to apply changes.

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud","team"]} label="Cloud-Hosted">

You can modify these settings using dynamic configuration resources.

Log in to Teleport from your local machine so you can use the `tctl` admin tool:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=myinstance.teleport.sh
$ tctl status
```

Edit your `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```code
$ tctl edit cap
```

Ensure that `cap.yaml` includes the following content:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factors: ["webauthn"]
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.teleport.sh
version: v2
```

Save and close the file in your editor to apply changes.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Local user policies

Teleport requires that passwords for local users be at least 12 characters long.

Additionally, Teleport will lock local user accounts if there are multiple
failed login attempts within a 30-minute window. The account will remain locked
for 30 minutes before the user can attempt to log in again.

Overriding a block is available to users with rights to maintain `user` resources,
available in the built-in `editor` role. To turn off a block, update the user entry,
following these steps.

Open the user resource in your editor, assigning <Var name="username" /> to the
name of your Teleport user:

```code
$ tctl edit users/<Var name="username" />
```

The resource should resemble the following:

```yaml
kind: user
metadata:
  name: jeff
spec:
  roles:
  - access
  status:
    is_locked: true
    lock_expires: "2023-04-22T01:55:02.228158166Z"
    locked_message: user has exceeded maximum failed login attempts
version: v2
```

Update the `is_locked` field under `status` to `false`, save the file, and close
your editor.

The user will now be unblocked from login attempts and can attempt to authenticate again.

## Authentication connectors

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Enterprise Cloud">

### GitHub

This connector implements GitHub's OAuth 2.0 authentication flow. Please refer to GitHub's documentation on [Creating an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/)
to learn how to create and register an OAuth app.

Here is an example of this setting in a `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: github
version: v2
```

See [GitHub OAuth 2.0](../../admin-guides/access-controls/sso/github-sso.mdx) for details on how to configure it.

### SAML

This connector type implements SAML authentication. It can be configured against any external identity manager like Okta or Auth0.

Here is an example of this setting in a `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: saml
version: v2
```

### OIDC

Teleport implements OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication.

Here is an example of this setting in a `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: oidc
version: v2
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise"]} label="Enterprise">

### GitHub

This connector implements GitHub's OAuth 2.0 authentication flow. Please refer to GitHub's documentation on [Creating an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/)
to learn how to create and register an OAuth app.

Here is an example of this setting in the `teleport.yaml` :

```yaml
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: github
```

See [GitHub OAuth 2.0](../../admin-guides/access-controls/sso/github-sso.mdx) for details on how to configure it.

### SAML

This connector type implements SAML authentication. It can be configured against any external identity manager like Okta or Auth0.

Here is an example of this setting in the `teleport.yaml` :

```yaml
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: saml
```

### OIDC

Teleport implements OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication, which is similar to SAML in principle.

Here is an example of this setting in the `teleport.yaml` :

```yaml
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: oidc
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["oss"]} label="Open Source">

### GitHub

This connector implements GitHub's OAuth 2.0 authentication flow. Please refer to GitHub's documentation on [Creating an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/)
to learn how to create and register an OAuth app.

Here is an example of this setting in the `teleport.yaml` :

```yaml
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: github
```

See [GitHub OAuth 2.0](../../admin-guides/access-controls/sso/github-sso.mdx) for details on how to configure it.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Require displaying a message of the day

Teleport can display a custom message of the day (MOTD) for users prior to authenticating
in the Teleport Web UI and CLI. 

### Self-Hosted

Add the following to your Teleport configuration file, which is stored in
`/etc/teleport.yaml` by default.

```yaml
auth_service:
  message_of_the_day: |
    Welcome to the Example Teleport Cluster
    All activity is monitored and should follow organization policies
```

Restart the Teleport Auth Service instances to apply this change.

### Teleport Enterprise Cloud/Dynamic

Edit your `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```code
$ tctl edit cap
```

Ensure that the resource includes the `message_of_the_day` field:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  message_of_the_day: |
    Welcome to the Example Teleport Cluster
    All activity is monitored and should follow organization policies
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.teleport.sh
version: v2
```

Save and close the file in your editor to apply changes.
