docs/pages/enroll-resources/application-access/okta/scim-only.mdx, before:

---
title: Installing the SCIM-Only Okta Integration
description: How to install a SCIM-only Okta integration
---

The SCIM (System for Cross-domain Identity Management) integration enables automated user management,
ensuring that user accounts in Teleport are synchronized with the corresponding Okta user profiles.
This integration streamlines the onboarding and offboarding process by automatically creating, updating, and deleting
Teleport user accounts in response to changes within the Okta organization.
SCIM Teleport integration allows immediate locking of users in Teleport when they are deprovisioned in Okta,
stopping all ongoing user Teleport sessions to maintain security and compliance.

## How it works
User provisioning (and de-provisioning) with SCIM requires two Teleport
components working together:

 - A SAML Connector that provides SSO login to Teleport for upstream Okta users
 - A Teleport SCIM plugin integration that provisions and de-provisions Teleport user accounts
   in response to changes in the upstream Okta organization

Both of these Teleport components rely on an Okta SAML application to act as the
interface between Teleport and Okta. For consistency, both of
the Teleport components must use the same Okta application.

When a user is assigned to the Okta app, either directly or via group
membership, a corresponding Teleport user account will be created. If the Okta
user already has a valid temporary Teleport SAML user account (i.e. they have
logged into the cluster via SAML SSO before SCIM provisioning was enabled), the
temporary account will automatically be adopted by the SAML integration and
promoted to a long-lived SCIM-managed account.

<Admonition type="note">
Currently none of the SCIM user profile traits are stored in the Teleport user, although this may change in future.
</Admonition>

When a user is unassigned from the Okta app, or is deactivated by the Okta admin, Teleport will immediately delete the user in question, and create a lock that will both immediately terminate any existing sessions and prevent that user from re-using any credentials that have already been issued. This lock will be automatically revoked if the user is subsequently re-provisioned via SCIM, otherwise the lock is permanent and will have to be explicitly deleted to remove.

<Admonition type="warning">
Okta does not send SCIM updates to Teleport when a user is merely suspended. Even though Okta will prevent a suspended user from logging back into the cluster, any existing sessions will not be terminated, and any pre-issued credentials will be valid for their normal lifetimes.
</Admonition>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)
- [Authentication With Okta as an SSO Provider](../../../admin-guides/access-controls/sso/okta.mdx)


## Step 1/2. Installing the Teleport SCIM integration

Teleport supports two SCIM integration modes:
 - **Without API token** - User traits to role mapping will be propagated when the user logs in to Teleport.
 As a side effect, user roles will be visible and updated when users log in to Teleport.
 - **With API token** - User traits to role mapping will be propagated immediately during SCIM user provisioning.

Run the following `tctl` command to install the SCIM integration.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Without API token">

```code
$ tctl plugins install okta  \
  --org https://trial-12356.okta.com \
  --saml-connector "${SAML_CONNECTOR_NAME}" \
  --no-users-sync \
  --no-accesslist-sync \
  --no-appgroup-sync \
  --scim
Successfully created Okta plugin "okta"

SCIM Base URL: https://teleport.example.com:443/v1/webapi/scim/okta
SCIM Identifier field for users: userName
SCIM Bearer Token: 1234567891234567891234567890
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="With API token">

```code
$ tctl plugins install okta  \
  --org https://trial-12356.okta.com \
  --saml-connector "${SAML_CONNECTOR_NAME}" \
  --no-users-sync \
  --no-accesslist-sync \
  --no-appgroup-sync \
  --scim
  --api-token="${OKTA_API_TOKEN}"
Successfully created Okta plugin "okta"

SCIM Base URL: https://teleport.example.com:443/v1/webapi/scim/okta
SCIM Identifier field for users: userName
SCIM Bearer Token: 1234567891234567891234567890
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>



## Step 2/2. Configuring the Okta app

To leverage the Teleport SCIM integration, you need to enable SCIM provisioning in your Okta app,
which will propagate user management changes to Teleport.
For detailed instructions on configuring SCIM provisioning in the Okta app, see the [Okta Integration *Configuring SCIM provisioning*](./hosted-guide.mdx#configuring-scim-provisioning) guide.

If your Okta app has assigned users *before* SCIM provisioning is enabled, you
will need to trigger their provisioning explicitly. This can be done by
selecting the *Provision Users* button on the Okta app Assignments page.

![Provision Existing Users](../../../../img/enterprise/plugins/okta/scim-provision-existing-users.png)

<Admonition>
We have seen some Okta instances that are missing the Provision Users button.
In that case the best way we have found to force user provisioning is to remove
and re-add the users to the app. Triggering a *Force Sync* in the Provisioning/To
App panel may also work, but we have had only intermittent success.
</Admonition>

### Hiding profile data from Teleport
If you have data in your Okta user profile that you don’t wish to share with
your Teleport cluster, you can edit the Okta application User profile to present Teleport
with a subset and/or mapped version of the full User profile.

## Deleting the SCIM integration

You can delete the SCIM integration via the Integrations page in the Teleport UI,
or with tctl like so:

```code
$ tctl plugins delete okta
```

<Admonition type="warning">
Any users provisioned by the SCIM service will be not automatically deleted
along with the SCIM plugin.
</Admonition>

You can semi-manually delete all SCIM-provisioned users using a combination of
tctl and jq.

For example:
```code
tctl get users --format=json \
 |  jq '.[] | select(.metadata.labels["teleport.dev/origin"] == "okta") | .metadata.name' -r \
 | xargs -L 1 tctl users rm
```

Commit message:

Docs: Adds Okta API key requirements for SCIM-only Okta (#51985)

docs/pages/enroll-resources/application-access/okta/scim-only.mdx, after:

---
title: Installing the SCIM-Only Okta Integration
description: How to install a SCIM-only Okta integration
---

The SCIM (System for Cross-domain Identity Management) integration enables automated user management,
ensuring that user accounts in Teleport are synchronized with the corresponding Okta user profiles.
This integration streamlines the onboarding and offboarding process by automatically creating, updating, and deleting
Teleport user accounts in response to changes within the Okta organization.
SCIM Teleport integration allows immediate locking of users in Teleport when they are deprovisioned in Okta,
stopping all ongoing user Teleport sessions to maintain security and compliance.

## How it works
User provisioning (and de-provisioning) with SCIM requires two Teleport
components working together:

 - A SAML Connector that provides SSO login to Teleport for upstream Okta users
 - A Teleport SCIM plugin integration that provisions and de-provisions Teleport user accounts
   in response to changes in the upstream Okta organization

Both of these Teleport components rely on an Okta SAML application to act as the
interface between Teleport and Okta. For consistency, both of
the Teleport components must use the same Okta application.

When a user is assigned to the Okta app, either directly or via group
membership, a corresponding Teleport user account will be created. If the Okta
user already has a valid temporary Teleport SAML user account (i.e. they have
logged into the cluster via SAML SSO before SCIM provisioning was enabled), the
temporary account will automatically be adopted by the SAML integration and
promoted to a long-lived SCIM-managed account.

<Admonition type="note">
Currently none of the SCIM user profile traits are stored in the Teleport user, although this may change in future.
</Admonition>

When a user is unassigned from the Okta app, or is deactivated by the Okta admin, Teleport will immediately delete the user in question, and create a lock that will both immediately terminate any existing sessions and prevent that user from re-using any credentials that have already been issued. This lock will be automatically revoked if the user is subsequently re-provisioned via SCIM, otherwise the lock is permanent and will have to be explicitly deleted to remove.

<Admonition type="warning">
Okta does not send SCIM updates to Teleport when a user is merely suspended. Even though Okta will prevent a suspended user from logging back into the cluster, any existing sessions will not be terminated, and any pre-issued credentials will be valid for their normal lifetimes.
</Admonition>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)
- [Authentication With Okta as an SSO Provider](../../../admin-guides/access-controls/sso/okta.mdx)


## Step 1/2. Installing the Teleport SCIM integration

Teleport supports two SCIM integration modes:
 - **Without API token** - User traits to role mapping will be propagated when the user logs in to Teleport.
 As a side effect, user roles will be visible and updated when users log in to Teleport.
 - **With API token** - User traits to role mapping will be propagated immediately during SCIM user provisioning.

Run the following `tctl` command to install the SCIM integration.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Without API token">

```code
$ tctl plugins install okta  \
  --org https://trial-12356.okta.com \
  --saml-connector "${SAML_CONNECTOR_NAME}" \
  --no-users-sync \
  --no-accesslist-sync \
  --no-appgroup-sync \
  --scim
Successfully created Okta plugin "okta"

SCIM Base URL: https://teleport.example.com:443/v1/webapi/scim/okta
SCIM Identifier field for users: userName
SCIM Bearer Token: 1234567891234567891234567890
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="With API token">

```code
$ tctl plugins install okta  \
  --org https://trial-12356.okta.com \
  --saml-connector "${SAML_CONNECTOR_NAME}" \
  --no-users-sync \
  --no-accesslist-sync \
  --no-appgroup-sync \
  --scim \
  --api-token="${OKTA_API_TOKEN}"
Successfully created Okta plugin "okta"

SCIM Base URL: https://teleport.example.com:443/v1/webapi/scim/okta
SCIM Identifier field for users: userName
SCIM Bearer Token: 1234567891234567891234567890
```
<Admonition type="note">
The Okta API Token requires the following permissions:
 - View users and their details
 - View groups and their details
 - View applications and their details
</Admonition>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>



## Step 2/2. Configuring the Okta app

To leverage the Teleport SCIM integration, you need to enable SCIM provisioning in your Okta app,
which will propagate user management changes to Teleport.
For detailed instructions on configuring SCIM provisioning in the Okta app, see the [Okta Integration *Configuring SCIM provisioning*](./hosted-guide.mdx#configuring-scim-provisioning) guide.

If your Okta app has assigned users *before* SCIM provisioning is enabled, you
will need to trigger their provisioning explicitly. This can be done by
selecting the *Provision Users* button on the Okta app Assignments page.

![Provision Existing Users](../../../../img/enterprise/plugins/okta/scim-provision-existing-users.png)

<Admonition>
We have seen some Okta instances that are missing the Provision Users button.
In that case the best way we have found to force user provisioning is to remove
and re-add the users to the app. Triggering a *Force Sync* in the Provisioning/To
App panel may also work, but we have had only intermittent success.
</Admonition>

### Hiding profile data from Teleport
If you have data in your Okta user profile that you don’t wish to share with
your Teleport cluster, you can edit the Okta application User profile to present Teleport
with a subset and/or mapped version of the full User profile.

## Deleting the SCIM integration

You can delete the SCIM integration via the Integrations page in the Teleport UI,
or with tctl like so:

```code
$ tctl plugins delete okta
```

<Admonition type="warning">
Any users provisioned by the SCIM service will be not automatically deleted
along with the SCIM plugin.
</Admonition>

You can semi-manually delete all SCIM-provisioned users using a combination of
tctl and jq.

For example:
```code
tctl get users --format=json \
 |  jq '.[] | select(.metadata.labels["teleport.dev/origin"] == "okta") | .metadata.name' -r \
 | xargs -L 1 tctl users rm
```
