docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/integrations/aws-sync.mdx, before:

---
title: Discover AWS Access Patterns with Teleport Policy
description: Describes how to import and visualize AWS accounts access patterns using Teleport Policy and Access Graph.
---

Teleport Policy streamlines and centralizes access management across your entire infrastructure. You can view access relationships in seconds, 
viewing unified, up-to-date relationships and policies between all users, groups, and computing resources.

Teleport Policy with Access Graph offers insights into access patterns within your AWS account. By scanning IAM 
permissions, users, groups, resources, and identities, it provides a visual representation and aids in 
enhancing the permission model within your AWS environment. This functionality enables you to address queries such as:

- What resources are accessible to AWS users and roles?
- Which resources can be reached via identities associated with EC2 instances?
- What AWS resources can Teleport users access when connecting to EC2 nodes?

Utilizing the Access Graph to analyze IAM permissions within an AWS account necessitates the setup of the Access Graph (AG)
service, a Discovery Service, and integration with your AWS account.

Access Graph is a feature of the [Teleport Policy](https://goteleport.com/platform/policy/) product that is 
available to Teleport Enterprise customers.

After logging in to the Teleport UI, go to the Management tab. If enabled, 
Access Graph options can be found under the Permission Management section.

## How it works

Access Graph discovers AWS access patterns, synchronizes various AWS resources,
including IAM Policies, Groups, Users, User Groups, EC2 instances, EKS clusters, and RDS databases. 
These resources are then visualized using the graph representation detailed in the
[Teleport Policy usage page](../policy-how-to-use.mdx).

The importing process involves two primary steps:

### Polling Cloud APIs

The Teleport Discovery Service continuously scans the configured AWS accounts. 
At intervals of 15 minutes, it retrieves the following resources from your AWS account:

- Users
- Groups
- User Groups
- IAM Roles
- IAM Policies
- EC2 Instances
- EKS Clusters
- RDS Databases
- S3 Buckets

Once all the necessary resources are fetched, the Teleport Discovery Service pushes them to the 
Access Graph, ensuring that it remains updated with the latest information from your AWS environment.

### Importing resources

Teleport Policy’s Access Graph feature delves into the IAM policies, identities,
and resources retrieved from your AWS account, crafting a 
graphical representation thereof.


## Prerequisites

- A running Teleport Enterprise cluster v14.3.9/v15.2.0 or later.
- Teleport Policy enabled for your account.
- For self-hosted clusters:
  - Ensure that an up-to-date `license.pem` is used in the Auth Service configuration.
  - A running Access Graph node v1.17.0 or later.
Check the [Teleport Policy page](../teleport-policy.mdx) for details on
how to set up Access Graph.
  - The node running the Access Graph service must be reachable from the Teleport Auth Service.

## Step 1/2. Configure Discovery Service (Self-hosted only)

<Notice type="warning">

If you have a managed Teleport Enterprise cluster, you can disregard
this step, as managed Teleport Enterprise already operates a properly configured 
Discovery Service within your cluster.
</Notice>

To activate the Teleport Discovery Service,
add the provided snippet to your Auth Service configuration. 
This service monitors dynamic `discovery_config` resources
that are set up with the `discovery_group` matching 
<Var name="access-graph-disc" />.


```yaml
discovery_service:
  enabled: true
  discovery_group: <Var name="access-graph-disc" />
```

Notice that if you already operate a Discovery Service within your cluster,
it's possible to reuse it as long as the following requirements are met:

- On step 2, you match the `discovery_group` with the existing Discovery Service's
`discovery_group`.
- Access Graph service is reachable from the machine where Discovery Service runs.

## Step 2/2. Set up Access Graph AWS Sync

To initiate the setup wizard for configuring AWS Sync, access the Teleport UI,
navigate to the Management tab, and choose the Access Graph option within the
Permission Management section.

If both Teleport and Access Graph support AWS sync, you'll notice a new button
adjacent to the Access Graph navigation bar labeled `Analyze AWS IAM policies with Access Graph`.

You'll be prompted to create a new Teleport AWS integration if you haven't configured
one already. Alternatively, you can opt for a previously established integration.

Upon selecting or creating the integration, you'll be instructed to execute a
bash script within your AWS Cloud Shell to configure the necessary permissions.

<Details title="List of IAM Policies required for AWS Sync" closed>

The policy is designed with a set of read-only actions, enabling Teleport
to access and retrieve information from resources within your AWS Account.

The IAM policy includes the following directives:


```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:DescribeInstances",
        "ec2:DescribeImages",
        "ec2:DescribeTags",
        "ec2:DescribeSnapshots",
        "ec2:DescribeKeyPairs",

        "eks:ListClusters",
        "eks:DescribeCluster",
        "eks:ListAccessEntries",
        "eks:ListAccessPolicies",
        "eks:ListAssociatedAccessPolicies",
        "eks:DescribeAccessEntry",

        "rds:DescribeDBInstances",
        "rds:DescribeDBClusters",
        "rds:ListTagsForResource",
        "rds:DescribeDBProxies",

        "dynamodb:ListTables",
        "dynamodb:DescribeTable",

        "redshift:DescribeClusters",
        "redshift:Describe*",

        "s3:ListAllMyBuckets",
        "s3:GetBucketPolicy",
        "s3:ListBucket",
        "s3:GetBucketLocation",
        "s3:GetBucketTagging",
        "s3:GetBucketPolicyStatus",
        "s3:GetBucketAcl",

        "iam:ListUsers",
        "iam:GetUser",
        "iam:ListRoles",
        "iam:ListGroups",
        "iam:ListPolicies",
        "iam:ListGroupsForUser",
        "iam:ListInstanceProfiles",
        "iam:ListUserPolicies",
        "iam:GetUserPolicy",
        "iam:ListAttachedUserPolicies",
        "iam:ListGroupPolicies",
        "iam:GetGroupPolicy",
        "iam:ListAttachedGroupPolicies",
        "iam:GetPolicy",
        "iam:GetPolicyVersion",
        "iam:ListRolePolicies",
        "iam:ListAttachedRolePolicies",
        "iam:GetRolePolicy",
        "iam:ListSAMLProviders",
        "iam:GetSAMLProvider",
        "iam:ListOpenIDConnectProviders",
        "iam:GetOpenIDConnectProvider"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}

```
</Details>


Once the IAM Policy has been successfully linked to the IAM role
utilized by Teleport, you'll be prompted to specify the regions from
which Teleport should import resources. This selection solely pertains
to regional resources and does not impact global resources such as S3
Buckets, IAM Policies, or IAM Users.

If you're operating a self-hosted cluster, you'll additionally need to
provide input for the `discovery_group` configured during Step 1.

Commit message:

[v17] Initial docs for Azure integration (#51894)
* Initial docs for Azure integration (#51631)

* Initial docs for Azure integration

* Linting

* Fixing multiline issue

* Adding variables

* A few more nitpicks

* Apply suggestions from code review

Suggestions from @ptgott

Co-authored-by: Paul Gottschling <paul.gottschling@goteleport.com>

* PR feedback

* Rewriting verification instructions

* Updating wording for access graph verification

---------

Co-authored-by: Paul Gottschling <paul.gottschling@goteleport.com>

* Making access graph description & verification steps an include file (#51831)

* Applying include file to the crown jewels page

---------

Co-authored-by: Paul Gottschling <paul.gottschling@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/integrations/aws-sync.mdx, after:

---
title: Discover AWS Access Patterns with Teleport Policy
description: Describes how to import and visualize AWS accounts access patterns using Teleport Policy and Access Graph.
---

Teleport Policy streamlines and centralizes access management across your entire infrastructure. You can view access relationships in seconds,
viewing unified, up-to-date relationships and policies between all users, groups, and computing resources.

Teleport Policy with Access Graph offers insights into access patterns within your AWS account. By scanning IAM
permissions, users, groups, resources, and identities, it provides a visual representation and aids in
enhancing the permission model within your AWS environment. This functionality enables you to address queries such as:

- What resources are accessible to AWS users and roles?
- Which resources can be reached via identities associated with EC2 instances?
- What AWS resources can Teleport users access when connecting to EC2 nodes?

Utilizing the Access Graph to analyze IAM permissions within an AWS account necessitates the setup of the Access Graph
service, a Discovery Service, and integration with your AWS account.

(!docs/pages/includes/policy/access-graph.mdx!)

## How it works

Access Graph discovers AWS access patterns, synchronizes various AWS resources,
including IAM Policies, Groups, Users, User Groups, EC2 instances, EKS clusters, and RDS databases.
These resources are then visualized using the graph representation detailed in the
[Teleport Policy usage page](../policy-how-to-use.mdx).

The importing process involves two primary steps:

### Polling Cloud APIs

The Teleport Discovery Service continuously scans the configured AWS accounts.
At intervals of 15 minutes, it retrieves the following resources from your AWS account:

- Users
- Groups
- User Groups
- IAM Roles
- IAM Policies
- EC2 Instances
- EKS Clusters
- RDS Databases
- S3 Buckets

Once all the necessary resources are fetched, the Teleport Discovery Service pushes them to the
Access Graph, ensuring that it remains updated with the latest information from your AWS environment.

### Importing resources

Teleport Policy’s Access Graph feature delves into the IAM policies, identities,
and resources retrieved from your AWS account, crafting a
graphical representation thereof.


## Prerequisites

- A running Teleport Enterprise cluster v14.3.9/v15.2.0 or later.
- Teleport Policy enabled for your account.
- For self-hosted clusters:
  - Ensure that an up-to-date `license.pem` is used in the Auth Service configuration.
  - A running Access Graph node v1.17.0 or later.
Check the [Teleport Policy page](../teleport-policy.mdx) for details on
how to set up Access Graph.
  - The node running the Access Graph service must be reachable from the Teleport Auth Service.

## Step 1/2. Configure Discovery Service (Self-hosted only)

<Notice type="warning">

If you have a cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise cluster, you can disregard
this step, as cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise already operates a properly configured
Discovery Service within your cluster.
</Notice>

To activate the Teleport Discovery Service, add a top level discovery_service section to the teleport.yaml
config used by the Auth Service. This service monitors dynamic `discovery_config` resources that are set up
with the `discovery_group` matching.

<Var name="discovery-group" />.
```yaml
discovery_service:
  enabled: true
  discovery_group: <Var name="discovery-group" />
```

Notice that if you already operate a Discovery Service within your cluster,
it's possible to reuse it as long as the following requirements are met:

- On step 2, you match the `discovery_group` with the existing Discovery Service's
`discovery_group`.
- Access Graph service is reachable from the machine where Discovery Service runs.

## Step 2/2. Set up Access Graph AWS Sync

To initiate the setup wizard for configuring AWS Sync, access the Teleport UI,
click the Policy sidebar button, and then click Integrations.

Click the "Setup new integration" button, and then select "AWS". You'll be prompted
to create a new Teleport AWS integration if you haven't configured one already.
Alternatively, you can opt for a previously established integration.

Upon selecting or creating the integration, you'll be instructed to execute a
bash script within your AWS Cloud Shell to configure the necessary permissions.

<Details title="List of IAM Policies required for AWS Sync" closed>

The policy is designed with a set of read-only actions, enabling Teleport
to access and retrieve information from resources within your AWS Account.

The IAM policy includes the following directives:


```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:DescribeInstances",
        "ec2:DescribeImages",
        "ec2:DescribeTags",
        "ec2:DescribeSnapshots",
        "ec2:DescribeKeyPairs",

        "eks:ListClusters",
        "eks:DescribeCluster",
        "eks:ListAccessEntries",
        "eks:ListAccessPolicies",
        "eks:ListAssociatedAccessPolicies",
        "eks:DescribeAccessEntry",

        "rds:DescribeDBInstances",
        "rds:DescribeDBClusters",
        "rds:ListTagsForResource",
        "rds:DescribeDBProxies",

        "dynamodb:ListTables",
        "dynamodb:DescribeTable",

        "redshift:DescribeClusters",
        "redshift:Describe*",

        "s3:ListAllMyBuckets",
        "s3:GetBucketPolicy",
        "s3:ListBucket",
        "s3:GetBucketLocation",
        "s3:GetBucketTagging",
        "s3:GetBucketPolicyStatus",
        "s3:GetBucketAcl",

        "iam:ListUsers",
        "iam:GetUser",
        "iam:ListRoles",
        "iam:ListGroups",
        "iam:ListPolicies",
        "iam:ListGroupsForUser",
        "iam:ListInstanceProfiles",
        "iam:ListUserPolicies",
        "iam:GetUserPolicy",
        "iam:ListAttachedUserPolicies",
        "iam:ListGroupPolicies",
        "iam:GetGroupPolicy",
        "iam:ListAttachedGroupPolicies",
        "iam:GetPolicy",
        "iam:GetPolicyVersion",
        "iam:ListRolePolicies",
        "iam:ListAttachedRolePolicies",
        "iam:GetRolePolicy",
        "iam:ListSAMLProviders",
        "iam:GetSAMLProvider",
        "iam:ListOpenIDConnectProviders",
        "iam:GetOpenIDConnectProvider"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}

```
</Details>


Once the IAM Policy has been successfully linked to the IAM role
utilized by Teleport, you'll be prompted to specify the regions from
which Teleport should import resources. This selection solely pertains
to regional resources and does not impact global resources such as S3
Buckets, IAM Policies, or IAM Users.

If you're operating a self-hosted cluster, you'll additionally need to
provide input for the `discovery_group` configured during Step 1.
