docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/integrations/azure-sync.mdx, before:

---
title: Discover Azure Access Patterns with Teleport Policy
description: Describes how to import and visualize Azure subscription access patterns using Teleport Policy and Access Graph.
---

Teleport Policy streamlines and centralizes access management across your entire infrastructure. You can view access
relationships in seconds, viewing unified, up-to-date relationships and policies between all users, groups, and
computing resources.

Teleport Policy with Access Graph offers insights into access patterns within your Azure subscription. By scanning
users, groups, service principals, and role definitions, it provides a visual representation and aids in enhancing the permission model
within your Azure environment. This functionality enables you to address queries such as:

- What resources are accessible to Azure users and roles?
- Which groups belong to other groups and how does that impact resource access?
- How broad or narrow is scoping across the subscription when assigning roles to users and groups?

Utilizing the Access Graph to analyze permissions within an Azure subscription necessitates the setup of the Access
Graph service, a Discovery Service, and integration with your Azure subscription.

(!docs/pages/includes/policy/access-graph.mdx!)

## How it works

Access Graph discovers Azure access patterns, synchronizes various Azure resources,
including users, groups, service principals, and role definitions.
These resources are then visualized using the graph representation detailed in the
[Teleport Policy usage page](../policy-how-to-use.mdx).

The importing process involves two primary steps:

### Polling Cloud APIs

The Teleport Discovery Service continuously scans the configured Azure subscriptions. At configurable intervals as
low as 15 minutes, it retrieves the following resources from your Azure account:

- Users
- Groups
- Service Principals
- Role Definitions
- Role Assignments
- Virtual Machines

Once all the necessary resources are fetched, the Teleport Discovery Service pushes them to Access Graph, ensuring
that it remains updated with the latest information from your Azure environment.

### Importing resources

Teleport Policy’s Access Graph feature visualizes the resources retrieved from your Azure subscription.

## Prerequisites

- A running Teleport Enterprise cluster v17.2.1 or later.
- Teleport Policy enabled for your account.
- For self-hosted clusters:
  - Ensure that an up-to-date `license.pem` is used in the Auth Service configuration.
  - A running Access Graph node v1.27.0 or later. Check the [Teleport Policy page](../teleport-policy.mdx) for details on
how to set up Access Graph.
  - The node running the Access Graph service must be reachable from the Teleport Auth Service.

## Step 1/2. Configure the Discovery Service (Self-hosted only)

<Admonition type="warning">
  If you have a cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise cluster, you can disregard
  this step, as cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise already operates a properly configured
  Discovery Service within your cluster.
</Admonition>

To activate the Teleport Discovery Service, add a top level discovery_service section to the `teleport.yaml`
config file used by the Auth Service. This service monitors dynamic `discovery_config` resources that are set up
with the `discovery_group` matching.

<Var name="discovery-group" />.
```yaml
discovery_service:
  enabled: true
  discovery_group: <Var name="discovery-group" />
```

Notice that if you already operate a Discovery Service within your cluster,
it's possible to reuse it as long as the following requirements are met:

- On step 2, you match the `discovery_group` with the existing Discovery Service's
`discovery_group`.
- Access Graph service is reachable from the machine where Discovery Service runs.

Once the Auth Service is configured, add the following to the Discovery Service configuration file to enable it
for fetching Azure resources:

```yaml
discovery_service:
  access_graph:
    azure:
      - subscription_id: <Var name="azure-subscription-id"/>
```

The Discovery Service will now periodically fetch resources from your Azure subscription.

## Step 2/2. Set up Access Graph Azure Sync

To configure the Teleport Discovery Service, the Azure managed identity running the Discovery Service within
Azure must be given the right permissions to fetch Azure resources. Within the
[Azure Cloud Shell](https://portal.azure.com/#cloudshell/), download the
[Teleport binary](https://goteleport.com/download/#install-links) in `.tar.gz` format and use it to run the integration
command.

You'll need to specify the following in the commands/configuration below:
- <Var name="teleport-version"/>
- <Var name="azure-subscription-id"/>
- <Var name="azure-principal-id"/>
- <Var name="azure-discovery-role"/>

Download and extract the Teleport binary:
```shell
curl -L https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-v<Var name="teleport-version"/>-linux-amd64-bin.tar.gz | tar xz
```

Run the integration command:
```shell
./teleport integration configure access-graph azure --principal-id <Var name="azure-principal-id"/> --role-name <Var name="azure-discovery-role"/> --subscription-id <Var name="azure-subscription-id"/>
```

Commit message:

[v17] docs: new product messaging for marketing launch (#52959)
* product name changes from marketing

* correcting duplications

* post-marketing review

* review changes

* Update docs/pages/admin-guides/infrastructure-as-code/managing-resources/access-list.mdx

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

* revisions

* cleanup and reverting use-cases of 'Zero Trust Access x'

* Trust Access corrections

* removing 2 images already in master

* post-feedback changes

* Update docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/teleport-policy.mdx

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

* post G2 review feedback

* Lint helm appeasement

* adding two images from marketing

* moving 2 images to getting-started directory

---------

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/integrations/azure-sync.mdx, after:

---
title: Discover Azure Access Patterns with Teleport Identity Security
description: Describes how to import and visualize Azure subscription access patterns using Identity Security and Access Graph.
---

Identity Security streamlines and centralizes access management across your entire infrastructure. You can view access
relationships in seconds, viewing unified, up-to-date relationships and policies between all users, groups, and
computing resources.

Identity Security with Access Graph offers insights into access patterns within your Azure subscription. By scanning
users, groups, service principals, and role definitions, it provides a visual representation and aids in enhancing the permission model
within your Azure environment. This functionality enables you to address queries such as:

- What resources are accessible to Azure users and roles?
- Which groups belong to other groups and how does that impact resource access?
- How broad or narrow is scoping across the subscription when assigning roles to users and groups?

Utilizing the Access Graph to analyze permissions within an Azure subscription necessitates the setup of the Access
Graph service, a Discovery Service, and integration with your Azure subscription.

(!docs/pages/includes/policy/access-graph.mdx!)

## How it works

Access Graph discovers Azure access patterns, synchronizes various Azure resources,
including users, groups, service principals, and role definitions.
These resources are then visualized using the graph representation detailed in the
[Identity Security usage page](../policy-how-to-use.mdx).

The importing process involves two primary steps:

### Polling Cloud APIs

The Teleport Discovery Service continuously scans the configured Azure subscriptions. At configurable intervals as
low as 15 minutes, it retrieves the following resources from your Azure account:

- Users
- Groups
- Service Principals
- Role Definitions
- Role Assignments
- Virtual Machines

Once all the necessary resources are fetched, the Teleport Discovery Service pushes them to Access Graph, ensuring
that it remains updated with the latest information from your Azure environment.

### Importing resources

Identity Security’s Access Graph feature visualizes the resources retrieved from your Azure subscription.

## Prerequisites

- A running Teleport Enterprise cluster v17.2.1 or later.
- Identity Security enabled for your account.
- For self-hosted clusters:
  - Ensure that an up-to-date `license.pem` is used in the Auth Service configuration.
  - A running Access Graph node v1.27.0 or later. Check the [Identity Security page](../teleport-policy.mdx) for details on
how to set up Access Graph.
  - The node running the Access Graph service must be reachable from the Teleport Auth Service.

## Step 1/2. Configure the Discovery Service (Self-hosted only)

<Admonition type="warning">
  If you have a cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise cluster, you can disregard
  this step, as cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise already operates a properly configured
  Discovery Service within your cluster.
</Admonition>

To activate the Teleport Discovery Service, add a top level discovery_service section to the `teleport.yaml`
config file used by the Auth Service. This service monitors dynamic `discovery_config` resources that are set up
with the `discovery_group` matching.

<Var name="discovery-group" />.
```yaml
discovery_service:
  enabled: true
  discovery_group: <Var name="discovery-group" />
```

Notice that if you already operate a Discovery Service within your cluster,
it's possible to reuse it as long as the following requirements are met:

- On step 2, you match the `discovery_group` with the existing Discovery Service's
`discovery_group`.
- Access Graph service is reachable from the machine where Discovery Service runs.

Once the Auth Service is configured, add the following to the Discovery Service configuration file to enable it
for fetching Azure resources:

```yaml
discovery_service:
  access_graph:
    azure:
      - subscription_id: <Var name="azure-subscription-id"/>
```

The Discovery Service will now periodically fetch resources from your Azure subscription.

## Step 2/2. Set up Access Graph Azure Sync

To configure the Teleport Discovery Service, the Azure managed identity running the Discovery Service within
Azure must be given the right permissions to fetch Azure resources. Within the
[Azure Cloud Shell](https://portal.azure.com/#cloudshell/), download the
[Teleport binary](https://goteleport.com/download/#install-links) in `.tar.gz` format and use it to run the integration
command.

You'll need to specify the following in the commands/configuration below:
- <Var name="teleport-version"/>
- <Var name="azure-subscription-id"/>
- <Var name="azure-principal-id"/>
- <Var name="azure-discovery-role"/>

Download and extract the Teleport binary:
```shell
curl -L https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-v<Var name="teleport-version"/>-linux-amd64-bin.tar.gz | tar xz
```

Run the integration command:
```shell
./teleport integration configure access-graph azure --principal-id <Var name="azure-principal-id"/> --role-name <Var name="azure-discovery-role"/> --subscription-id <Var name="azure-subscription-id"/>
```
