docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/integrations/gitlab.mdx, before:

---
title: Discover GitLab Access Patterns with Teleport Policy
description: Describes how to synchronize GitLab access patterns using Teleport Policy and Access Graph.
---

With Teleport Policy's Access Graph, you gain insights into access patterns within your GitLab account. By scanning all
permissions, users, groups, and projects, it provides a visual representation to help enhance the permission model within
your GitLab environment. This functionality enables you to answer queries such as:

- What projects are accessible to users?
- Which users have write permissions to projects?

(!docs/pages/includes/policy/access-graph.mdx!)

## How it works

Access Graph synchronizes various GitLab resources, including users, projects and groups.
These resources are then visualized using the graph representation detailed in the
[Access Graph page](../teleport-policy.mdx).

The importing process involves two primary steps:

### Polling GitLab APIs

The Teleport cluster continuously scans the configured GitLab accounts and retrieves the following resources:

- Users
- Groups
- Projects
- Group memberships
- Project memberships

Once all the necessary resources are fetched, Teleport pushes them to the
Access Graph, ensuring that it remains updated with the latest information from your GitLab instance.

### Importing resources

Teleport Policy’s Access Graph feature delves into the resources imported and their relationships, crafting a
graphical representation thereof.

## Prerequisites

- A running Teleport Enterprise cluster v14.3.20/v15.3.1/v16.0.0 or later.
- Teleport Policy enabled for your account.
- A GitLab instance running GitLab v9.0 or later.
- For self-hosted clusters:
  - Ensure that an up-to-date `license.pem` is used in the Auth Service configuration.
  - A running Access Graph node v1.21.4 or later.
Check the [Teleport Policy page](../teleport-policy.mdx) for details on
how to set up Access Graph.
  - The node running the Access Graph service must be reachable from the Teleport Auth Service.

## Step 1/3. Create GitLab token

To set up the GitLab integration, you'll need to create a GitLab token with the following permissions:

- `read_api`

Navigate to your GitLab instance, access the User Settings, and select the Access Tokens option.
Create a new token with the `read_api` scope and copy the generated token. For more information, refer to the
[GitLab documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html).

The importer will use this token to fetch the necessary resources from your GitLab instance.

<Admonition type="warning">

    The GitLab importer will only fetch resources that the token has access to. Ensure that the user associated with
    the token has the necessary permissions to access/view the resources you want to import.

    If you're using a GitLab.com account, the importer will only fetch the users who are part of the organization or
    have access to the projects that the token can access.

    If you're using a self-hosted GitLab instance, the importer will fetch all resources that the token has access to,
    including all users who are part of the instance.

</Admonition>

The token will be used in the next step to configure the GitLab Sync integration.

## Step 2/3. Set up Access Graph GitLab Sync

To initiate the setup wizard for configuring Gitlab Sync, access the Teleport UI,
click the Policy sidebar button, and then click Integrations.

Click the "Setup new integration" button, and then select "Gitlab". You'll be prompted
to create a new Teleport Gitlab integration if you haven't configured one already.
Alternatively, you can opt for a previously established integration.

You'll be prompted to provide the GitLab token created in Step 1 and the GitLab instance domain.
Once the token is successfully validated, you'll be able to see the resources imported in Access Graph.

## Step 3/3. View GitLab resources in Access Graph

After the GitLab resources are imported, you can view them in the Access Graph page.
The graph representation will show the relationships between users, groups, and projects within your GitLab instance.

Users can have permissions to access a Group or Project. When a user has access to a Group, they inherit permissions
to all projects and sub-projects within that group.

You can view the permissions granted to users, groups, and projects by clicking on the respective nodes in the graph.

For example, to view the permissions granted to a user, click on the user node and select `View Access` from the context menu.
This will display the permissions granted to the user and the resources they have access to.

You can also run queries to fetch specific information from the Access Graph, such as:

### Fetch All Projects Accessible to a User

The following query fetches all projects accessible to a user <Var name="user" />:

```sql
SELECT * FROM access_path WHERE "identity" = '<Var name="user" />' AND source='Gitlab'
```

Additionally, you filter projects by the user's access level, `owner`, `maintainer`, `developer`, `guest`, or `reporter`
by running the following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM access_path WHERE "identity" = '<Var name="user" />' AND source='Gitlab' AND action='owner'
```

Change the `action` parameter to `maintainer`, `developer`, `guest`, or `reporter` to fetch the respective projects.

### Fetch All Users with Write Access to a Project

The following query fetches all users with read/write access to a project named <Var name="project" />:

```sql
SELECT * FROM access_path WHERE "resource" = '<Var name="project" />' AND source='Gitlab'
```

## Troubleshooting

After setting up the GitLab integration, you can monitor the import process status on the Access Graph's Integrations page.
If the import fails, an error message will help identify the issue.

You can also check whether the import process is currently running or has completed successfully by viewing the status.

If you encounter any `Unauthorized` errors, ensure that the GitLab token has the necessary permissions to access the resources
and that the token is valid. If the token has expired, you'll need to create a new token and update the integration settings.

If you encounter any other issues, please ensure that the Teleport cluster can reach the GitLab instance and that the
GitLab APIs are accessible.

If you're still facing issues, please inspect the error log on the Access Graph's Integrations page for more details.

Commit message:

[v17] docs: new product messaging for marketing launch (#52959)
* product name changes from marketing

* correcting duplications

* post-marketing review

* review changes

* Update docs/pages/admin-guides/infrastructure-as-code/managing-resources/access-list.mdx

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

* revisions

* cleanup and reverting use-cases of 'Zero Trust Access x'

* Trust Access corrections

* removing 2 images already in master

* post-feedback changes

* Update docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/teleport-policy.mdx

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

* post G2 review feedback

* Lint helm appeasement

* adding two images from marketing

* moving 2 images to getting-started directory

---------

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/integrations/gitlab.mdx, after:

---
title: Discover GitLab Access Patterns with Teleport Identity Security
description: Describes how to synchronize GitLab access patterns using Identity Security and Access Graph.
---

Gain insights into access patterns within your GitLab account using Identity Security with Access Graph. By scanning all
permissions, users, groups, and projects, it provides a visual representation to help enhance the permission model within
your GitLab environment. This functionality enables you to answer queries such as:

- What projects are accessible to users?
- Which users have write permissions to projects?

(!docs/pages/includes/policy/access-graph.mdx!)

## How it works

Access Graph synchronizes various GitLab resources, including users, projects and groups.
These resources are then visualized using the graph representation detailed in the
[Access Graph page](../teleport-policy.mdx).

The importing process involves two primary steps:

### Polling GitLab APIs

The Teleport cluster continuously scans the configured GitLab accounts and retrieves the following resources:

- Users
- Groups
- Projects
- Group memberships
- Project memberships

Once all the necessary resources are fetched, Teleport pushes them to the
Access Graph, ensuring that it remains updated with the latest information from your GitLab instance.

### Importing resources

Identity Security’s Access Graph feature delves into the resources imported and their relationships, crafting a
graphical representation thereof.

## Prerequisites

- A running Teleport Enterprise cluster v14.3.20/v15.3.1/v16.0.0 or later.
- Identity Security enabled for your account.
- A GitLab instance running GitLab v9.0 or later.
- For self-hosted clusters:
  - Ensure that an up-to-date `license.pem` is used in the Auth Service configuration.
  - A running Access Graph node v1.21.4 or later.
Check the [Identity Security page](../teleport-policy.mdx) for details on
how to set up Access Graph.
  - The node running the Access Graph service must be reachable from the Teleport Auth Service.

## Step 1/3. Create GitLab token

To set up the GitLab integration, you'll need to create a GitLab token with the following permissions:

- `read_api`

Navigate to your GitLab instance, access the User Settings, and select the Access Tokens option.
Create a new token with the `read_api` scope and copy the generated token. For more information, refer to the
[GitLab documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html).

The importer will use this token to fetch the necessary resources from your GitLab instance.

<Admonition type="warning">

    The GitLab importer will only fetch resources that the token has access to. Ensure that the user associated with
    the token has the necessary permissions to access/view the resources you want to import.

    If you're using a GitLab.com account, the importer will only fetch the users who are part of the organization or
    have access to the projects that the token can access.

    If you're using a self-hosted GitLab instance, the importer will fetch all resources that the token has access to,
    including all users who are part of the instance.

</Admonition>

The token will be used in the next step to configure the GitLab Sync integration.

## Step 2/3. Set up Access Graph GitLab Sync

To initiate the setup wizard for configuring Gitlab Sync, access the Teleport UI,
click the Policy sidebar button, and then click Integrations.

Click the "Setup new integration" button, and then select "Gitlab". You'll be prompted
to create a new Teleport Gitlab integration if you haven't configured one already.
Alternatively, you can opt for a previously established integration.

You'll be prompted to provide the GitLab token created in Step 1 and the GitLab instance domain.
Once the token is successfully validated, you'll be able to see the resources imported in Access Graph.

## Step 3/3. View GitLab resources in Access Graph

After the GitLab resources are imported, you can view them in the Access Graph page.
The graph representation will show the relationships between users, groups, and projects within your GitLab instance.

Users can have permissions to access a Group or Project. When a user has access to a Group, they inherit permissions
to all projects and sub-projects within that group.

You can view the permissions granted to users, groups, and projects by clicking on the respective nodes in the graph.

For example, to view the permissions granted to a user, click on the user node and select `View Access` from the context menu.
This will display the permissions granted to the user and the resources they have access to.

You can also run queries to fetch specific information from the Access Graph, such as:

### Fetch All Projects Accessible to a User

The following query fetches all projects accessible to a user <Var name="user" />:

```sql
SELECT * FROM access_path WHERE "identity" = '<Var name="user" />' AND source='Gitlab'
```

Additionally, you filter projects by the user's access level, `owner`, `maintainer`, `developer`, `guest`, or `reporter`
by running the following query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM access_path WHERE "identity" = '<Var name="user" />' AND source='Gitlab' AND action='owner'
```

Change the `action` parameter to `maintainer`, `developer`, `guest`, or `reporter` to fetch the respective projects.

### Fetch All Users with Write Access to a Project

The following query fetches all users with read/write access to a project named <Var name="project" />:

```sql
SELECT * FROM access_path WHERE "resource" = '<Var name="project" />' AND source='Gitlab'
```

## Troubleshooting

After setting up the GitLab integration, you can monitor the import process status on the Access Graph's Integrations page.
If the import fails, an error message will help identify the issue.

You can also check whether the import process is currently running or has completed successfully by viewing the status.

If you encounter any `Unauthorized` errors, ensure that the GitLab token has the necessary permissions to access the resources
and that the token is valid. If the token has expired, you'll need to create a new token and update the integration settings.

If you encounter any other issues, please ensure that the Teleport cluster can reach the GitLab instance and that the
GitLab APIs are accessible.

If you're still facing issues, please inspect the error log on the Access Graph's Integrations page for more details.
