docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/integrations/integrations.mdx, before:

---
title: Teleport Policy Integrations
description: Integrations in Access Graph with Teleport Policy.
---

Teleport can integrate with identity providers (IdPs) like Okta and AWS OIDC 
which can then be used with Access Graph, providing a comprehensive, 
interactive view of how users, roles, and resources are interconnected, 
enabling administrators to better understand and control access policies.

Read the following guides for information on using Teleport Access Graph to
visualize role-based access controls from third-party services:

(!toc!)

## Viewing available integrations

The Integrations page shows integrations that can be enabled or are already
enabled in Access Graph.

![Integrations](../../../../img/access-graph/integrations.png)

Resources imported into Teleport through Teleport-enabled integrations are
automatically imported into Teleport Policy without any additional
configuration.

To access the interface, your user must have a role that allows `list` and `read` verbs on the `access_graph` resource, e.g.:  

```yaml
kind: role
version: v7
metadata:
  name: my-role
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources:
      - access_graph
      verbs:
      - list
      - read
```

The preset `editor` role has the required permissions by default.

## Set up a new integration

On the left sidebar, click **Policy**. Click the connection icon labeled Integrations: 
![Connection view](../../../../img/access-graph/connection_view.png) 
Select the "Set up new integration" button.

Teleport can also import and grant access to resources from Okta organizations,
such as user profiles, groups and applications. You can view connection data in
Access Graph. Follow the steps here to add an [Okta
integration](../../../enroll-resources/application-access/okta/hosted-guide.mdx)
in your cluster.

Commit message:

docs: new product messaging for marketing launch  (#52319)
* initial draft for marketing changes

* product name changes from marketing

* correcting duplications

* final changes post-marketing review

* review changes

* Update docs/pages/admin-guides/infrastructure-as-code/managing-resources/access-list.mdx

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

* revisions

* cleanup and reverting use-cases of 'Zero Trust Access x'

* Trust Access corrections

* removing 2 images already in master

* post-feedback changes

* Update docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/teleport-policy.mdx

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

* post G2 review feedback

* Lint helm appeasement

---------

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/integrations/integrations.mdx, after:

---
title: Teleport Identity Security Integrations
description: Integrations in Access Graph with Identity Security.
---

Teleport can integrate with identity providers (IdPs) like Okta and AWS OIDC 
which can then be used with Access Graph, providing a comprehensive, 
interactive view of how users, roles, and resources are interconnected, 
enabling administrators to better understand and control access policies.

Read the following guides for information on using Teleport Identity Security Access Graph to
visualize role-based access controls from third-party services:

(!toc!)

## Viewing available integrations

The Integrations page shows integrations that can be enabled or are already
enabled in Access Graph.

![Integrations](../../../../img/access-graph/integrations.png)

Resources imported into Teleport through Teleport-enabled integrations are
automatically imported into Identity Security without any additional
configuration.

To access the interface, your user must have a role that allows `list` and `read` verbs on the `access_graph` resource, e.g.:  

```yaml
kind: role
version: v7
metadata:
  name: my-role
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources:
      - access_graph
      verbs:
      - list
      - read
```

The preset `editor` role has the required permissions by default.

## Set up a new integration

On the left sidebar, click **Policy**. Click the connection icon labeled Integrations: 
![Connection view](../../../../img/access-graph/connection_view.png) 
Select the "Set up new integration" button.

Teleport can also import and grant access to resources from Okta organizations,
such as user profiles, groups and applications. You can view connection data in
Access Graph. Follow the steps here to add an [Okta
integration](../../../enroll-resources/application-access/okta/hosted-guide.mdx)
in your cluster.
