docs/pages/enroll-resources/workload-identity/tsh.mdx, before:

---
title: Workload Identity and tsh
description: Issuing SPIFFE SVIDs using Workload Identity and tsh
---

(!/docs/pages/includes/workload-id-preview.mdx!)

In some scenarios, you may wish to issue a SPIFFE SVID manually, without using
Machine ID. This can be useful in scenarios where you need to impersonate a
service for the purposes of debugging or could provide a mechanism for providing
human access to services which use SPIFFE SVIDs for authentication.

In this guide, you will use the `tsh` tool to issue a SPIFFE SVID.

## Prerequisites

- A role configured to allow issuing SPIFFE SVIDs and this role assigned to
  your user. See [Getting Started](./getting-started.mdx) for more information.

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

## Step 1/2. Using `tsh` to issue a SPIFFE SVID

First, determine where you wish to write the SPIFFE SVID. If you wish to write
these into a directory, you must first create it. In our example, we will write
the SVID to a directory called `svid`.

Next, determine what SPIFFE ID you wish to issue the SVID for. In our example,
this will be a SPIFFE ID with a path of `/my-svc`.

Issue the SVID specifying the output directory using `--out` and the SPIFFE ID
path as the first argument:

```sh
$ tsh svid issue --out ./svid /my-svc
```

Additionally, flags can be used to further customize the SVID:

| `flag`       | Description                                                                                                         |
|--------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--dns-san`  | Adds a DNS SAN to the resulting X509 SVID.                                                                          |
| `--ip-san`   | Adds an IP SAN to the resulting X509 SVID.                                                                          |
| `--svid-ttl` | Sets the Time To Live for the resulting X509 SVID. Specify duration using `s`, `m` and `h`, e.g `12h` for 12 hours. |

### Using headless authentication to issue a SVID on a remote host

In some scenarios, you may wish to use `tsh` to issue a SVID on a host you have
SSHed into, without logging into Teleport on that host. This can be particularly
useful in scenarios where authentication may not be possible, for example, when
you authenticate using a hardware token.

In this case, you can use the headless authentication feature of `tsh`. This
provides a prompt for you to authenticate the command on the remote machine,
using your local `tsh` client.

To use headless authentication, we provide the `--headless` flag, and must
also specify the `--proxy` and `--user` flags:

```sh
$ tsh --proxy=example.teleport.sh --user=example --headless svid issue \
  --output . \
  /foo
```

## Step 2/2. Using the output SVID

Once the SVID has been issued, you can configure your workload to use it. This
will differ depending on the workload.

When written to disk, the SVID will be written as three files:

| `file`            | Description                                                                                                                                                                    |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `svid_key.pem`    | The private key for the X509 SVID. This is PEM wrapped and marshalled in PKCS8 format.                                                                                         |
| `svid.pem`        | The X509 SVID itself. This is PEM wrapped and DER encoded.                                                                                                                     |
| `svid_bundle.pem` | The SPIFFE trust bundle. A concatenated list of X509 certificates for the certificate authorities within the trust domain. These are individually PEM wrapped and DER encoded. |

## Next steps

- [Workload Identity Overview](./introduction.mdx): Overview of Teleport
Workload Identity.
- [Getting Started](./getting-started.mdx): How to configure Teleport for
Workload Identity.
- [Best Practices](./best-practices.mdx): Best practices for using Workload
Identity in Production.
- Read the [configuration reference](../../reference/machine-id/configuration.mdx) to explore
all the available configuration options.

Commit message:

[v17] Fix Workload Identity documentation for `tsh` with new UX (#52288)
* Fix roles anywhere guide

* Update tsh.mdx

docs/pages/enroll-resources/workload-identity/tsh.mdx, after:

---
title: Workload Identity and tsh
description: Issuing SPIFFE SVIDs using Workload Identity and tsh
---

(!/docs/pages/includes/workload-id-preview.mdx!)

In some scenarios, you may wish to issue a SPIFFE SVID manually, without using
Machine ID. This can be useful in scenarios where you need to impersonate a
service for the purposes of debugging or could provide a mechanism for providing
human access to services which use SPIFFE SVIDs for authentication.

In this guide, you will use the `tsh` tool to issue a SPIFFE SVID.

## Prerequisites

- A role configured to allow issuing SPIFFE SVIDs and this role assigned to
  your user. See [Getting Started](./getting-started.mdx) for more information.

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

## Step 1/2. Using `tsh` to issue a SPIFFE X509 SVID

First, determine where you wish to write the SPIFFE SVID. If you wish to write
these into a directory, you must first create it. In our example, we will write
the SVID to a directory called `svid`.

Next, determine which workload identity resource you'll use to issue the X509
SVID. In our example, we'll use a workload identity called
`my-workload-identity`.

Issue the SVID specifying the output directory using `--output` and the name of
the workload identity resource using `--name-selector`:

```sh
$ tsh workload-identity issue-x509 --output ./svid --name-selector my-workload-identity
```

Additionally, flags can be used to further customize the SVID:

| `flag`             | Description                                                                                                         |
|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--credential-ttl` | Sets the Time To Live for the resulting X509 SVID. Specify duration using `s`, `m` and `h`, e.g `12h` for 12 hours. |

### Using headless authentication to issue a SVID on a remote host

In some scenarios, you may wish to use `tsh` to issue a SVID on a host you have
SSHed into, without logging into Teleport on that host. This can be particularly
useful in scenarios where authentication may not be possible, for example, when
you authenticate using a hardware token.

In this case, you can use the headless authentication feature of `tsh`. This
provides a prompt for you to authenticate the command on the remote machine,
using your local `tsh` client.

To use headless authentication, we provide the `--headless` flag, and must
also specify the `--proxy` and `--user` flags:

```sh
$ tsh --proxy=example.teleport.sh \
  --user example \
  --headless \
  workload-identity issue-x509 \
  --output . \
  --name-selector my-workload-identity
```

## Step 2/2. Using the output SVID

Once the SVID has been issued, you can configure your workload to use it. This
will differ depending on the workload.

When written to disk, the SVID will be written as three files:

| `file`            | Description                                                                                                                                                                    |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `svid_key.pem`    | The private key for the X509 SVID. This is PEM wrapped and marshalled in PKCS8 format.                                                                                         |
| `svid.pem`        | The X509 SVID itself. This is PEM wrapped and DER encoded.                                                                                                                     |
| `svid_bundle.pem` | The SPIFFE trust bundle. A concatenated list of X509 certificates for the certificate authorities within the trust domain. These are individually PEM wrapped and DER encoded. |

## Next steps

- [Workload Identity Overview](./introduction.mdx): Overview of Teleport
Workload Identity.
- [Getting Started](./getting-started.mdx): How to configure Teleport for
Workload Identity.
- [Best Practices](./best-practices.mdx): Best practices for using Workload
Identity in Production.
- Read the [configuration reference](../../reference/machine-id/configuration.mdx) to explore
all the available configuration options.
