docs/pages/agents/join-services-to-your-cluster/aws-ec2.mdx, before:

---
title: Joining Services via AWS EC2 Identity Document
description: Use the EC2 join method to add services to your Teleport cluster on AWS
---

This guide will explain how to use the **EC2 join method** to configure Teleport
processes to join your Teleport cluster without sharing any secrets when they
are running in AWS.

<ScopedBlock scope="cloud">

The EC2 join method is not available in Teleport Enterprise Cloud. Teleport
Enterprise Cloud customers can use the [IAM join method](./aws-iam.mdx) or
[secret tokens](join-token.mdx).

</ScopedBlock>

The EC2 join method is available to any Teleport process running on an EC2
instance.  Only one Teleport process per EC2 instance may use the EC2 join
method.

IAM credentials with `ec2:DescribeInstances` permissions are required on your
Teleport Auth Service. No IAM credentials are required on the Teleport processes
joining the cluster.

<Details
opened
title="Other AWS joining methods"
scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}
scopeOnly
>

There are two other AWS join methods available depending on your use case.

The **IAM join method** is available in self-hosted editions of Teleport. It is
available to any Teleport process running anywhere with access to IAM
credentials, such as an EC2 instance with an attached IAM role. No specific
permissions or IAM policy is required: an IAM role with no attached policies is
sufficient. No IAM credentials are required on the Teleport Auth Service.

You can also configure services running in AWS to join a cluster via [join
tokens](join-token.mdx), which is useful when you don't want to rely on
AWS-specific APIs.

</Details>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)
- An AWS EC2 instance to host a Teleport process, with the Teleport binary
  installed. The host should not have an existing data dir (`/var/lib/teleport`
  by default). Remove the data directory if this instance has previously joined
  a Teleport cluster.

## Step 1/4. Set up AWS IAM credentials

The Teleport Auth Service needs permission to call `ec2:DescribeInstances` in order to check
that the EC2 instances attempting to join your cluster are legitimate and
currently running.

### Step 1.1. Create the IAM policy

Create the following AWS IAM policy named `teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` in
your account:

```json
{
   "Version": "2012-10-17",
   "Statement": [
	   {
		   "Effect": "Allow",
		   "Action": "ec2:DescribeInstances",
		   "Resource": "*"
	   }
   ]
}
```

### Step 1.2. Attach the IAM policy

If your Teleport Auth Service is running on an EC2 instance and already has an
attached "IAM role for Amazon EC2", add the above
`teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` to the existing role. If the instance
does not already have an attached role, create an IAM role with the above
policy and attach it to your EC2 instance running the Teleport Auth Service.

If you are running your Teleport Auth Service outside of AWS you can attach
the `teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` directly to an IAM user which
Teleport will use to authenticate.

You can provide the IAM credentials to Teleport through a shared configuration
file or environment variables. See
[Specifying Credentials](https://aws.github.io/aws-sdk-go-v2/docs/configuring-sdk/#specifying-credentials)
for details.

## Step 2/4. Create the AWS joining token

Configure your Teleport Auth Service with a special dynamic token which will
allow services from your AWS account to join your Teleport cluster.

Under the hood, services will prove that they are running in your AWS account by
sending a signed EC2 Instance Identity Document which matches an allow rule
configured in your AWS joining token.

Create the following `token.yaml` with an `allow` rule specifying your AWS
account and the AWS regions in which your EC2 instances will run.

```
# token.yaml
kind: token
version: v2
metadata:
  # the token name is not a secret because instances must prove that they are
  # running in your AWS account to use this token
  name: ec2-token
spec:
  # use the minimal set of roles required (e.g. Node, App, Kube, DB, WindowsDesktop)
  roles: [Node]

  # set the join method allowed for this token
  join_method: ec2

  # aws_iid_ttl is the amount of time after the EC2 instance is launched during
  # which it should be allowed to join the cluster. Use a short TTL to decrease
  # the risk of stolen EC2 Instance Identity Documents being used to join your
  # cluster.
  #
  # When launching your first Teleport process using the EC2 join method, you may need to
  # temporarily configure a higher `aws_iid_ttl` value so that you have time
  # to get Teleport set up and configured. This feature works best once Teleport
  # is configured in an EC2 AMI to start automatically on launch.
  aws_iid_ttl: 5m

  allow:
  - aws_account: "111111111111" # your AWS account ID
    aws_regions: # use the minimal set of AWS regions required
    - us-west-1
    - us-west-2
```

Run `tctl create token.yaml` to create the token.

## Step 3/4. Configure your services

The EC2 join method can be used for Teleport processes running the SSH, Proxy,
Kubernetes, Application, Database, or Windows Desktop Services. The Teleport
process should be run directly on an AWS EC2 instance and must have network
access to the AWS EC2 IMDSv2 (enabled by default for most EC2 instances).

Configure your Teleport process with a custom `teleport.yaml` file. Use the
`join_params` section with `token_name` matching your token created in Step 2
and `method: ec2` as shown in the following example config:

```
# /etc/teleport.yaml
version: v3
teleport:
  join_params:
    token_name: ec2-token
    method: ec2
  proxy_server: https://teleport.example.com:443
ssh_service:
  enabled: yes
auth_service:
  enabled: no
proxy_service:
  enabled: no
```

## Step 4/4. Launch your Teleport process

<Admonition
  type="note"
  title="IMPORTANT"
>

  The data directory (`/var/lib/teleport` by default) must be empty prior to
  launching the Teleport process. If this Teleport process had previously joined
  by another method (e.g.  token or IAM) the host UUID will not match the
  expected name (`<AWS Account number>-<instance id>`) and will not be allowed
  to join.

</Admonition>

Start Teleport on the host and confirm that it is able to connect to and join
your cluster. You're all set!

## Configuring the EC2 join method for Multiple AWS accounts

In order for Teleport processes to join from EC2 instances in AWS accounts other
than the account in which your Teleport Auth Service is running, Teleport must
have permissions to assume an IAM role in each of those accounts and call
`ec2:DescribeInstances` in the foreign account.

In each AWS account where your EC2 instances will be running:

1. Create the `teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` from [Step 1.1](#step-11-create-the-iam-policy).

2. Create an IAM role `teleport-DescribeInstances-role` that can be assumed from
   the account where your Teleport Auth Service is running.

   Go to the AWS IAM Console, select Create Role, and for "Select type of
   trusted entity", select "Another AWS account" and enter the AWS Account ID of
   the account where your Teleport Auth Service is running.

   Attach the `teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` to the role.

In the AWS account where your Teleport Auth Service is running:

1. Create an IAM policy named `teleport-AssumeRole-policy` with an `AssumeRole`
   statement for each foreign account:

```json
{
   "Version": "2012-10-17",
   "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:iam::222222222222:role/teleport-DescribeInstances-role"
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:iam::333333333333:role/teleport-DescribeInstances-role"
        }
   ]
}
```

2. Attach this `teleport-AssumeRole-policy` to the IAM role your Teleport Auth
   Service has credentials for, see [Step 1.2](#step-12-attach-the-iam-policy).

When creating the AWS joining token, include an allow rule for each foreign
account and specify the AWS ARN for the foreign
`teleport-DescribeInstances-role`.

```yaml
# token.yaml
kind: token
version: v2
metadata:
  name: ec2-multiaccount-token
spec:
  roles: [Node]
  aws_iid_ttl: 5m
  allow:
  - aws_account: "222222222222"
    aws_regions:
    - us-west-1
    - us-west-2
    aws_role: "arn:aws:iam::222222222222:role/teleport-DescribeInstances-role"
  - aws_account: "333333333333"
    aws_regions:
    - us-west-1
    - us-west-2
    aws_role: "arn:aws:iam::333333333333:role/teleport-DescribeInstances-role"
```

Commit message:

Edit forScopes configurations and edit guides
Closes #26500

This change requires merging gravitational/docs#326 to add a Team scope
to the docs.

This updates pages within the docs so that:

- Each page's `forScopes` configuration is accurate, especially with
  regard to support for Teleport Team.
- All scoped components match the `forScopes` configuration for each
  page. For this, I used the linter introduced by
  gravitational/docs#327.

docs/pages/agents/join-services-to-your-cluster/aws-ec2.mdx, after:

---
title: Joining Services via AWS EC2 Identity Document
description: Use the EC2 join method to add services to your Teleport cluster on AWS
---

This guide will explain how to use the **EC2 join method** to configure Teleport
processes to join your Teleport cluster without sharing any secrets when they
are running in AWS.

The EC2 join method is available to any Teleport process running on an EC2
nstance. Only one Teleport process per EC2 instance may use the EC2 join
method.

IAM credentials with `ec2:DescribeInstances` permissions are required on your
Teleport Auth Service. No IAM credentials are required on the Teleport processes
joining the cluster.

<Notice type="warning">

The EC2 join method is not available in Teleport Enterprise Cloud and Teleport
Team. Teleport Enterprise Cloud and Team customers can use the [IAM join
method](./aws-iam.mdx) or [secret tokens](join-token.mdx).

</Notice>

<Details
opened
title="Other AWS joining methods"
>

There are two other AWS join methods available depending on your use case.

The **IAM join method** is available in self-hosted editions of Teleport. It is
available to any Teleport process running anywhere with access to IAM
credentials, such as an EC2 instance with an attached IAM role. No specific
permissions or IAM policy is required: an IAM role with no attached policies is
sufficient. No IAM credentials are required on the Teleport Auth Service.

You can also configure services running in AWS to join a cluster via [join
tokens](join-token.mdx), which is useful when you don't want to rely on
AWS-specific APIs.

</Details>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/self-hosted-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)
- An AWS EC2 instance to host a Teleport process, with the Teleport binary
  installed. The host should not have an existing data dir (`/var/lib/teleport`
  by default). Remove the data directory if this instance has previously joined
  a Teleport cluster.

## Step 1/4. Set up AWS IAM credentials

The Teleport Auth Service needs permission to call `ec2:DescribeInstances` in order to check
that the EC2 instances attempting to join your cluster are legitimate and
currently running.

### Step 1.1. Create the IAM policy

Create the following AWS IAM policy named `teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` in
your account:

```json
{
   "Version": "2012-10-17",
   "Statement": [
	   {
		   "Effect": "Allow",
		   "Action": "ec2:DescribeInstances",
		   "Resource": "*"
	   }
   ]
}
```

### Step 1.2. Attach the IAM policy

If your Teleport Auth Service is running on an EC2 instance and already has an
attached "IAM role for Amazon EC2", add the above
`teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` to the existing role. If the instance
does not already have an attached role, create an IAM role with the above
policy and attach it to your EC2 instance running the Teleport Auth Service.

If you are running your Teleport Auth Service outside of AWS you can attach
the `teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` directly to an IAM user which
Teleport will use to authenticate.

You can provide the IAM credentials to Teleport through a shared configuration
file or environment variables. See
[Specifying Credentials](https://aws.github.io/aws-sdk-go-v2/docs/configuring-sdk/#specifying-credentials)
for details.

## Step 2/4. Create the AWS joining token

Configure your Teleport Auth Service with a special dynamic token which will
allow services from your AWS account to join your Teleport cluster.

Under the hood, services will prove that they are running in your AWS account by
sending a signed EC2 Instance Identity Document which matches an allow rule
configured in your AWS joining token.

Create the following `token.yaml` with an `allow` rule specifying your AWS
account and the AWS regions in which your EC2 instances will run.

```
# token.yaml
kind: token
version: v2
metadata:
  # the token name is not a secret because instances must prove that they are
  # running in your AWS account to use this token
  name: ec2-token
spec:
  # use the minimal set of roles required (e.g. Node, App, Kube, DB, WindowsDesktop)
  roles: [Node]

  # set the join method allowed for this token
  join_method: ec2

  # aws_iid_ttl is the amount of time after the EC2 instance is launched during
  # which it should be allowed to join the cluster. Use a short TTL to decrease
  # the risk of stolen EC2 Instance Identity Documents being used to join your
  # cluster.
  #
  # When launching your first Teleport process using the EC2 join method, you may need to
  # temporarily configure a higher `aws_iid_ttl` value so that you have time
  # to get Teleport set up and configured. This feature works best once Teleport
  # is configured in an EC2 AMI to start automatically on launch.
  aws_iid_ttl: 5m

  allow:
  - aws_account: "111111111111" # your AWS account ID
    aws_regions: # use the minimal set of AWS regions required
    - us-west-1
    - us-west-2
```

Run `tctl create token.yaml` to create the token.

## Step 3/4. Configure your services

The EC2 join method can be used for Teleport processes running the SSH, Proxy,
Kubernetes, Application, Database, or Windows Desktop Services. The Teleport
process should be run directly on an AWS EC2 instance and must have network
access to the AWS EC2 IMDSv2 (enabled by default for most EC2 instances).

Configure your Teleport process with a custom `teleport.yaml` file. Use the
`join_params` section with `token_name` matching your token created in Step 2
and `method: ec2` as shown in the following example config:

```
# /etc/teleport.yaml
version: v3
teleport:
  join_params:
    token_name: ec2-token
    method: ec2
  proxy_server: https://teleport.example.com:443
ssh_service:
  enabled: yes
auth_service:
  enabled: no
proxy_service:
  enabled: no
```

## Step 4/4. Launch your Teleport process

<Admonition
  type="note"
  title="IMPORTANT"
>

  The data directory (`/var/lib/teleport` by default) must be empty prior to
  launching the Teleport process. If this Teleport process had previously joined
  by another method (e.g.  token or IAM) the host UUID will not match the
  expected name (`<AWS Account number>-<instance id>`) and will not be allowed
  to join.

</Admonition>

Start Teleport on the host and confirm that it is able to connect to and join
your cluster. You're all set!

## Configuring the EC2 join method for Multiple AWS accounts

In order for Teleport processes to join from EC2 instances in AWS accounts other
than the account in which your Teleport Auth Service is running, Teleport must
have permissions to assume an IAM role in each of those accounts and call
`ec2:DescribeInstances` in the foreign account.

In each AWS account where your EC2 instances will be running:

1. Create the `teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` from [Step 1.1](#step-11-create-the-iam-policy).

2. Create an IAM role `teleport-DescribeInstances-role` that can be assumed from
   the account where your Teleport Auth Service is running.

   Go to the AWS IAM Console, select Create Role, and for "Select type of
   trusted entity", select "Another AWS account" and enter the AWS Account ID of
   the account where your Teleport Auth Service is running.

   Attach the `teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` to the role.

In the AWS account where your Teleport Auth Service is running:

1. Create an IAM policy named `teleport-AssumeRole-policy` with an `AssumeRole`
   statement for each foreign account:

```json
{
   "Version": "2012-10-17",
   "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:iam::222222222222:role/teleport-DescribeInstances-role"
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:iam::333333333333:role/teleport-DescribeInstances-role"
        }
   ]
}
```

2. Attach this `teleport-AssumeRole-policy` to the IAM role your Teleport Auth
   Service has credentials for, see [Step 1.2](#step-12-attach-the-iam-policy).

When creating the AWS joining token, include an allow rule for each foreign
account and specify the AWS ARN for the foreign
`teleport-DescribeInstances-role`.

```yaml
# token.yaml
kind: token
version: v2
metadata:
  name: ec2-multiaccount-token
spec:
  roles: [Node]
  aws_iid_ttl: 5m
  allow:
  - aws_account: "222222222222"
    aws_regions:
    - us-west-1
    - us-west-2
    aws_role: "arn:aws:iam::222222222222:role/teleport-DescribeInstances-role"
  - aws_account: "333333333333"
    aws_regions:
    - us-west-1
    - us-west-2
    aws_role: "arn:aws:iam::333333333333:role/teleport-DescribeInstances-role"
```
