docs/pages/agents/join-services-to-your-cluster/aws-iam.mdx, before:

---
title: Joining Services via AWS IAM Role
description: Use the IAM join method to add services to your Teleport cluster on AWS
---

This guide will explain how to use the **IAM join method** to configure Teleport
processes to join your Teleport cluster without sharing any secrets when they
are running in AWS.

The IAM join method is available to any Teleport process running anywhere with
access to IAM credentials, such as an EC2 instance with an attached IAM role.
No specific permissions or IAM policy is required: an IAM role with no attached
policies is sufficient. No IAM credentials are required on the Teleport Auth
Service.

Support for joining a cluster with the Proxy Service behind a layer 7 load
balancer or reverse proxy is available in Teleport 13.0+.

For other methods of joining a Teleport process to a cluster, see [Joining
Teleport Services to a Cluster](../join-services-to-your-cluster.mdx).

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- An AWS EC2 instance to host a Teleport service, with the Teleport binary
  installed.

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/4. Set up AWS IAM credentials

Every Teleport process using the IAM method to join your Teleport cluster needs
AWS IAM credentials in order to call the `sts:GetCallerIdentity` API. No
specific IAM policy or permissions are needed. Any IAM user or role can call
this API.

If running Teleport on an EC2 instance, it is sufficient to attach any IAM role
to the instance. To attach an IAM role from the EC2 dashboard, select `Actions >
Security > Modify IAM role`. It is not necessary for the role to have any
attached IAM policies at all. If your instance does not otherwise need AWS
credentials, it is preferred to create and attach an empty role with no attached
policies.

## Step 2/4. Create the AWS joining token

Under the hood, services will prove that they are running in your AWS account by
sending a pre-signed `sts:GetCallerIdentity` request to the Teleport Auth
Service. The service's identity must match an allow rule configured in your AWS
service joining token.

Create the following `token.yaml` with an `allow` rule specifying your AWS
account and the ARN that the Teleport process's identity must match.

(!docs/pages/includes/provision-token/iam-spec.mdx!)

The token name `iam-token` is just an example and can be any value you want to
use, as long as you use the same value for `join_params.token_name` in Step 3.

The optional `aws_arn` field in the allow rules supports wildcard characters:
- `*` to match any combination of characters
- `?` to match any single character

Run the following command to create the token:

```code
$ tctl create -f token.yaml
```

## Step 3/4. Configure your services

The IAM join method can be used for Teleport processes running the SSH, Proxy,
Kubernetes, Application, or Database Service.

Configure your Teleport service with a custom `teleport.yaml` file. Use the
`join_params` section with `token_name` matching your token created in Step 2
and `method: iam` as shown in the following example config:

```
# /etc/teleport.yaml
version: v3
teleport:
  join_params:
    token_name: iam-token
    method: iam
  proxy_server: teleport.example.com:443
ssh_service:
  enabled: yes
auth_service:
  enabled: no
proxy_service:
  enabled: no
```

In the `teleport.proxy_server` field, replace the value with the host and web
port of your Teleport Proxy Service or Teleport Enterprise Cloud tenant, e.g.,
`mytenant.teleport.sh:443`.

## Step 4/4. Launch your Teleport process

(!docs/pages/includes/aws-credentials.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/start-teleport.mdx!)

Once you have started Teleport, confirm that your service is able to connect to and
join your cluster.

Commit message:

Add context around AWS join methods (#43380)
Closes #26893

Help users determine whether to use the EC2 or IAM join method by:

- Adding a "How it works" section to the top of each method's how-to
  guide explaining how the join method works.
- Ensuring that both guides include a brief discussion of alternative
  possibilities. Currently, only one of these guides does.

docs/pages/agents/join-services-to-your-cluster/aws-iam.mdx, after:

---
title: Joining Services via AWS IAM Role
description: Use the IAM join method to add services to your Teleport cluster on AWS
---

This guide explains how to use the **IAM join method** to configure Teleport
processes to join your Teleport cluster without sharing any secrets when they
are running in AWS.

There are two other AWS join methods available depending on your use
case:

1. The **EC2 join method**, which is only available for self-hosted Teleport
   deployments (see [documentation](aws-ec2.mdx). A Teleport process running on
   an EC2 instance requests a signed EC2 instance identity document and presents
   it to the Teleport Auth Service, which queries the EC2 API to verify that the
   instance is genuine. This method requires a self-hosted Teleport cluster and
   IAM credentials for the Teleport Auth Service.
1. **Tokens not signed by AWS:** You can configure Teleport processes running on
   AWS to join a cluster via [Teleport join tokens](join-token.mdx) or, for
   Teleport processes running on Kubernetes, [signed ServiceAccount
   tokens](kubernetes.mdx). These approaches allow you to join a Teleport
   process to a cluster when you don't want to rely on AWS-specific APIs, e.g.,
   when adopting a cloud-agnostic approach.

## How it works

The IAM join method is available to any Teleport process running anywhere with
access to IAM credentials, such as an EC2 instance with an attached IAM role.
No specific permissions or IAM policy is required: an IAM role with no attached
policies is sufficient. No IAM credentials are required on the Teleport Auth
Service.

Teleport processes prove that they are running in your AWS account by sending a
pre-signed `sts:GetCallerIdentity` request to the Teleport Auth Service. The
service's identity must match an allow rule configured in your AWS service
joining token.

Support for joining a cluster with the Proxy Service behind a layer 7 load
balancer or reverse proxy is available in Teleport 13.0+.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- An AWS EC2 instance to host a Teleport service, with the Teleport binary
  installed.

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/4. Set up AWS IAM credentials

Every Teleport process using the IAM method to join your Teleport cluster needs
AWS IAM credentials in order to call the `sts:GetCallerIdentity` API. No
specific IAM policy or permissions are needed. Any IAM user or role can call
this API.

If running Teleport on an EC2 instance, it is sufficient to attach any IAM role
to the instance. To attach an IAM role from the EC2 dashboard, select `Actions >
Security > Modify IAM role`. It is not necessary for the role to have any
attached IAM policies at all. If your instance does not otherwise need AWS
credentials, it is preferred to create and attach an empty role with no attached
policies.

## Step 2/4. Create the AWS joining token

Create the following `token.yaml` with an `allow` rule specifying your AWS
account and the ARN that the Teleport process's identity must match.

(!docs/pages/includes/provision-token/iam-spec.mdx!)

The token name `iam-token` is just an example and can be any value you want to
use, as long as you use the same value for `join_params.token_name` in Step 3.

The optional `aws_arn` field in the allow rules supports wildcard characters:
- `*` to match any combination of characters
- `?` to match any single character

Run the following command to create the token:

```code
$ tctl create -f token.yaml
```

## Step 3/4. Configure your services

The IAM join method can be used for Teleport processes running the SSH, Proxy,
Kubernetes, Application, or Database Service.

Configure your Teleport service with a custom `teleport.yaml` file. Use the
`join_params` section with `token_name` matching your token created in Step 2
and `method: iam` as shown in the following example config:

```
# /etc/teleport.yaml
version: v3
teleport:
  join_params:
    token_name: iam-token
    method: iam
  proxy_server: teleport.example.com:443
ssh_service:
  enabled: yes
auth_service:
  enabled: no
proxy_service:
  enabled: no
```

In the `teleport.proxy_server` field, replace the value with the host and web
port of your Teleport Proxy Service or Teleport Enterprise Cloud tenant, e.g.,
`mytenant.teleport.sh:443`.

## Step 4/4. Launch your Teleport process

(!docs/pages/includes/aws-credentials.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/start-teleport.mdx!)

Once you have started Teleport, confirm that your service is able to connect to and
join your cluster.
