docs/pages/choose-an-edition/teleport-cloud/faq.mdx, before:

---
title: Teleport Enterprise Cloud FAQ
description: Teleport cloud frequently asked questions.
tocDepth: 3
---

## Billing and usage

### How does Cloud Billing work?

Please [reach out to sales](https://goteleport.com/signup/enterprise) to discuss pricing.

### Can a customer deploy multiple clusters in Teleport Enterprise Cloud?

[Reach out to sales](https://goteleport.com/signup/enterprise) to discuss pricing.

### If I start with Teleport Enterprise Cloud, can I move to Teleport Enterprise or Teleport Open Source, or do I need to start again?

If you plan to use S3 and DynamoDB as storage backends, we can provide data for you to import. But you should reach out to us first. If you use a different backend, you will need to start over.

## Security

### How long will Teleport Enterprise Cloud retain my data?

See our documentation on [data retention](./architecture.mdx#data-retention).

### Is an independent security audit available?

Security audits by independent third-parties are performed at least annually. You can request audit results and other
related information on the [Teleport Trust Portal](https://trust.goteleport.com).

### Does your SOC 2 report include Teleport Enterprise Cloud?

(!docs/pages/includes/soc2.mdx!)

### How do you store passwords?

Password hashes are generated using [bcrypt](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/crypto/bcrypt).

### Do you encrypt data at rest?

Each deployment is using at-rest encryption using AWS DynamoDB and S3 at-rest encryption
for customer data including session recordings and user records.

### Can I get a list of IP addresses to configure a firewall?

We do not have plans to offer a list of IP addresses for Teleport Enterprise
Cloud at the moment.

Teleport Enterprise Cloud infrastructure is elastic and IP addresses can and do
change when we make infrastructure changes. This would make the maintenance of
IP allowlists a cumbersome and brittle process for customers.

However, we do provide customers with a stable tenant DNS name backed with
TLS certificates from [letsencrypt.org](https://letsencrypt.org) that can be
utilized to verify the integrity of any outbound connections to Teleport
Enterprise Cloud.

### Can I configure an allowlist of inbound IP addresses to Teleport Enterprise Cloud?

We do not have plans to offer support for inbound connection IP allowlists.

We believe mTLS with strong user and [device
identity](../../access-controls/guides/device-trust.mdx) provides the best
available security for client authentication.

For customers that require IP-based control for compliance purposes, we do
support IP Pinning. For more information see `pin_source_ip` in our [Teleport
Access Controls Reference](../../access-controls/reference.mdx).

### Are internal connections encrypted / authenticated?

Teleport components communicate with themselves using mTLS, with a separate certificate authority for each tenant. Connections to AWS services, such as DynamoDB and
S3, are established using encryption provided by AWS, both at rest and in transit. Each tenant has its own credentials that isolate it to interacting with only its own data.
## Connecting resources

### How do I add resources to Teleport Enterprise Cloud?

You can connect servers, Kubernetes clusters, databases and applications using
[reverse tunnels](../../management/join-services-to-your-cluster.mdx).

There is no need to open any ports on your infrastructure for inbound traffic.

### What is the maximum number of agents a customer can connect to their cluster?

If you plan on connecting more than 10,000 nodes or agents, please contact your account executive or customer support to ensure your tenant is properly scaled.

### Are dynamic node tokens available?

After [connecting](#how-can-i-access-the-tctl-admin-tool) `tctl` to Teleport Enterprise Cloud, users can generate
[dynamic tokens](../../management/join-services-to-your-cluster/join-token.mdx):

```code
$ tctl nodes add --ttl=5m --roles=node,proxy --token=$(uuid)
```

## Using `tctl`

### How can I access the `tctl` admin tool?

Find the appropriate download at [Teleport Enterprise Cloud Downloads](./downloads.mdx). Use the Enterprise version of `tctl`.

After downloading the tools, first log in to your cluster using `tsh`, then use `tctl` remotely:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=myinstance.teleport.sh
$ tctl status
```

### Why am I getting `permission denied` errors when using `tctl`?

If you have a local file `/etc/teleport.yaml` on your machine `tctl` will attempt to use the local cluster. Set the environment variable `TELEPORT_CONFIG_FILE` to `""` so it will not attempt to use that Teleport configuration file.

```code
$ export TELEPORT_CONFIG_FILE=""
$ tctl tokens add --type=node
```

## Audit events and session recordings

### Is there a way to forward Teleport Enterprise Cloud audit events to my company's internal Security Information and Event Management (SIEM)?

Yes. We recommend Teleport's [event handler plugin](../../management/export-audit-events/fluentd.mdx) to export Teleport Enterprise Cloud audit events.

### Is it possible to enable proxy recording mode?

Proxy recording mode is disabled for cloud customers

### Is there a way to download session recordings for easy playback?

The ability to download recordings for offline viewing will be available in a future release.

## Upgrading

### Will Teleport be automatically upgraded with each release?

Teleport Cloud follows the Teleport [Production
readiness](../../upcoming-releases.mdx) guidelines.

- Major version upgrades for customer Auth and Proxy Servers occur after the
  first minor release (for example (=teleport.major_version=).1.0) of Teleport.
  This typically happens within one month of a new major release of Teleport
  becoming available.
- After the first minor release, subsequent minor and patch upgrades typically
  occur within a week.

### Are upgrades times configurable for my Teleport Enterprise Cloud tenant?

Yes, you can set the window start time that works best for your organization
for upgrades. Teleport provides a scheduled maintenance time window for any
upgrades, patches and other required updates for all tenants. An upgrade for
your tenant will not start earlier than the window start time you set.

To set the window start time select your username in the Web UI, then the Help
& Support option from the drop-down. The Scheduled Upgrades section within that
page allows you to configure the window start time.

Teleport recommends subscribing to the Teleport Enterprise Cloud updates at
[status.teleport.sh](https://status.teleport.sh) to keep up to date on
scheduled maintenance.

### How can I find version information on connected agents?

To find the version of Teleport agent is attached to your cluster, run the
following commands for the different protocols we support.

```code
$ tctl get nodes --format=text
$ tctl get kube_server --format=text
$ tctl get app_server --format=text
$ tctl get db_server --format=text
$ tctl get windows_desktop_service --format=text
```

Below you can see sample output of `tctl get nodes --format=text`. Note the
`Version` column will contain the version of the attached agent.

```code
$ tctl get nodes --format=text
Host     UUID                                 Public Address Labels Version
-------- ------------------------------------ -------------- ------ ----------
server01 46d8cad0-8967-4815-a01a-77aae62c34fe 127.0.0.1:3022        12.0.0
server02 c33b5513-a9eb-463b-8f1b-1f209afe5b4f 127.0.0.1:3122        12.0.0
```

## Architecture and networking

### Which Proxy Service ports are open on my Teleport Enterprise Cloud tenant?

Teleport Enterprise Cloud allocates a different set of ports to each tenant. To see which
ports are available for your Teleport Enterprise Cloud tenant, run a command similar to the
following, replacing `mytenant.teleport.sh` with your tenant domain:

```code
$ curl https://mytenant.teleport.sh/webapi/ping | jq '.proxy'
```

The output should resemble the following, including the unique ports assigned to
your tenant:

```json
{
  "kube": {
    "enabled": true,
    "public_addr": "mytenant.teleport.sh:11107",
    "listen_addr": "0.0.0.0:3026"
  },
  "ssh": {
    "listen_addr": "[::]:3023",
    "tunnel_listen_addr": "0.0.0.0:3024",
    "public_addr": "mytenant.teleport.sh:443",
    "ssh_public_addr": "mytenant.teleport.sh:11105",
    "ssh_tunnel_public_addr": "mytenant.teleport.sh:11106"
  },
  "db": {
    "postgres_public_addr": "mytenant.teleport.sh:11109",
    "mysql_listen_addr": "0.0.0.0:3036",
    "mysql_public_addr": "mytenant.teleport.sh:11108"
  },
  "tls_routing_enabled": true
}
```

This output also indicates whether TLS routing is enabled for your tenant. When
TLS routing is enabled, connections to a Teleport service (e.g., the Teleport
SSH Service) are routed through the Proxy Service's public web address, rather
than through a port allocated to that service.

In this case, you can see that TLS routing is enabled, and that the Proxy
Service's public web address (`ssh.public_addr`) is `mytenant.teleport.sh:443`.

Read more in our [TLS Routing](../../architecture/tls-routing.mdx) guide.

### How does Teleport manage web certificates? Can I upload my own?

Teleport uses [letsencrypt.org](https://letsencrypt.org/) to issue
certificates for every customer. It is not possible to upload a custom
certificate or use a custom domain name.

### Where does Teleport Enterprise Cloud run?

Teleport Enterprise Cloud is deployed within AWS, using S3 and DynamoDB for storage with AWS-managed encryption keys. All data is currently hosted in us-west-2.
Currently there is no option to select an alternative region for storage.

### Are you using AWS-managed encryption keys, or CMKs via KMS?

We use AWS-managed keys. Currently there is no option to provide your own key.

### Is this Teleport's S3 bucket, or my bucket based on my AWS credentials?

It's a Teleport-managed S3 bucket with AWS-managed keys.
Currently there is no way to provide your own bucket.

### Is IPv6 Supported for connections to Teleport Enterprise Cloud?

We don't currently support IPv6 connections to Teleport Enterprise Cloud.

### Can I change the domain name of my Cloud instance after it's been created?

We're currently researching whether this can be done, so please contact support at support@goteleport.com.

### Is FIPS mode an option?

FIPS is not currently an option for Teleport Enterprise Cloud clusters.


## Performance and reliability

### Can I use Teleport Enterprise Cloud in production?

Yes. Large organizations leverage Teleport Enterprise Cloud to manage the vast number of resources in their organization. Teleport Enterprise Cloud is audited regularly to ensure the most reliable and secure service possible is available to our customers.

### What is the Cloud SLA?

Teleport Enterprise Cloud commits to an SLA of (=cloud.sla.monthly_percentage=) of monthly uptime,
a maximum of (=cloud.sla.monthly_downtime=) of downtime per month. While we routinely exceed this SLA,
this number reflects risks in our architecture that we will improve over time.

### Is there a status page available?

[status.teleport.sh](https://status.teleport.sh)

### Can I get push notifications of Teleport Enterprise Cloud downtime?

Yes. Customers can subscribe to Teleport Enterprise Cloud updates at [status.teleport.sh](https://status.teleport.sh).

### Can I retrieve diagnostics from my hosted cluster?

We currently don't expose any metrics interfaces for a tenant.

For our own metrics collection, we're rolling out mTLS, so that only authorized internal clients may collect or scrape metrics from the running instances.
This design does not include a mechanism to issue mTLS certificates to external clients, while maintaining isolation guarantees that one tenant cannot interact with another tenant.

Teleport cloud tenants are made up of a cluster of processes, with designated processes sitting behind a load balancer. To scrape the entire cluster would require each component of
the Teleport cluster to be individually addressable and accessible from external sources. This could allow individual components to be selectively attacked, if an adversary is able to
address traffic to any individual software instance within the cluster.

### How do I set up recovery codes for my account so I don't lose access?

We have a [short step-by-step guide](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/discussions/12379) on setting up recovery codes.

Commit message:

Update teleport cloud faq.mdx (#28169)
* Update teleport cloud faq.mdx

add note indicating automatic upgrades are not triggered if incompatible agents are detected

* Update docs/pages/choose-an-edition/teleport-cloud/faq.mdx

Co-authored-by: Evan Freed <2314084+evanfreed@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Evan Freed <2314084+evanfreed@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/pages/choose-an-edition/teleport-cloud/faq.mdx, after:

---
title: Teleport Enterprise Cloud FAQ
description: Teleport cloud frequently asked questions.
tocDepth: 3
---

## Billing and usage

### How does Cloud Billing work?

Please [reach out to sales](https://goteleport.com/signup/enterprise) to discuss pricing.

### Can a customer deploy multiple clusters in Teleport Enterprise Cloud?

[Reach out to sales](https://goteleport.com/signup/enterprise) to discuss pricing.

### If I start with Teleport Enterprise Cloud, can I move to Teleport Enterprise or Teleport Open Source, or do I need to start again?

If you plan to use S3 and DynamoDB as storage backends, we can provide data for you to import. But you should reach out to us first. If you use a different backend, you will need to start over.

## Security

### How long will Teleport Enterprise Cloud retain my data?

See our documentation on [data retention](./architecture.mdx#data-retention).

### Is an independent security audit available?

Security audits by independent third-parties are performed at least annually. You can request audit results and other
related information on the [Teleport Trust Portal](https://trust.goteleport.com).

### Does your SOC 2 report include Teleport Enterprise Cloud?

(!docs/pages/includes/soc2.mdx!)

### How do you store passwords?

Password hashes are generated using [bcrypt](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/crypto/bcrypt).

### Do you encrypt data at rest?

Each deployment is using at-rest encryption using AWS DynamoDB and S3 at-rest encryption
for customer data including session recordings and user records.

### Can I get a list of IP addresses to configure a firewall?

We do not have plans to offer a list of IP addresses for Teleport Enterprise
Cloud at the moment.

Teleport Enterprise Cloud infrastructure is elastic and IP addresses can and do
change when we make infrastructure changes. This would make the maintenance of
IP allowlists a cumbersome and brittle process for customers.

However, we do provide customers with a stable tenant DNS name backed with
TLS certificates from [letsencrypt.org](https://letsencrypt.org) that can be
utilized to verify the integrity of any outbound connections to Teleport
Enterprise Cloud.

### Can I configure an allowlist of inbound IP addresses to Teleport Enterprise Cloud?

We do not have plans to offer support for inbound connection IP allowlists.

We believe mTLS with strong user and [device
identity](../../access-controls/guides/device-trust.mdx) provides the best
available security for client authentication.

For customers that require IP-based control for compliance purposes, we do
support IP Pinning. For more information see `pin_source_ip` in our [Teleport
Access Controls Reference](../../access-controls/reference.mdx).

### Are internal connections encrypted / authenticated?

Teleport components communicate with themselves using mTLS, with a separate certificate authority for each tenant. Connections to AWS services, such as DynamoDB and
S3, are established using encryption provided by AWS, both at rest and in transit. Each tenant has its own credentials that isolate it to interacting with only its own data.
## Connecting resources

### How do I add resources to Teleport Enterprise Cloud?

You can connect servers, Kubernetes clusters, databases and applications using
[reverse tunnels](../../management/join-services-to-your-cluster.mdx).

There is no need to open any ports on your infrastructure for inbound traffic.

### What is the maximum number of agents a customer can connect to their cluster?

If you plan on connecting more than 10,000 nodes or agents, please contact your account executive or customer support to ensure your tenant is properly scaled.

### Are dynamic node tokens available?

After [connecting](#how-can-i-access-the-tctl-admin-tool) `tctl` to Teleport Enterprise Cloud, users can generate
[dynamic tokens](../../management/join-services-to-your-cluster/join-token.mdx):

```code
$ tctl nodes add --ttl=5m --roles=node,proxy --token=$(uuid)
```

## Using `tctl`

### How can I access the `tctl` admin tool?

Find the appropriate download at [Teleport Enterprise Cloud Downloads](./downloads.mdx). Use the Enterprise version of `tctl`.

After downloading the tools, first log in to your cluster using `tsh`, then use `tctl` remotely:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=myinstance.teleport.sh
$ tctl status
```

### Why am I getting `permission denied` errors when using `tctl`?

If you have a local file `/etc/teleport.yaml` on your machine `tctl` will attempt to use the local cluster. Set the environment variable `TELEPORT_CONFIG_FILE` to `""` so it will not attempt to use that Teleport configuration file.

```code
$ export TELEPORT_CONFIG_FILE=""
$ tctl tokens add --type=node
```

## Audit events and session recordings

### Is there a way to forward Teleport Enterprise Cloud audit events to my company's internal Security Information and Event Management (SIEM)?

Yes. We recommend Teleport's [event handler plugin](../../management/export-audit-events/fluentd.mdx) to export Teleport Enterprise Cloud audit events.

### Is it possible to enable proxy recording mode?

Proxy recording mode is disabled for cloud customers

### Is there a way to download session recordings for easy playback?

The ability to download recordings for offline viewing will be available in a future release.

## Upgrading

### Will Teleport be automatically upgraded with each release?

Teleport Cloud follows the Teleport [Upcoming
Releases](../../upcoming-releases.mdx) timelines.

- Major version upgrades for customer Auth and Proxy Servers occur after the
  first minor release (for example (=teleport.major_version=).1.0) of Teleport.
  This typically happens within one month of a new major release of Teleport
  becoming available.
- After the first minor release, subsequent minor and patch upgrades typically
  occur within a week.
- Your Teleport tenant will NOT be automatically upgraded to the next major version if any
  Teleport agents connected to the cluster are not compatible (> 1 major version behind).

### Are upgrades times configurable for my Teleport Enterprise Cloud tenant?

Yes, you can set the window start time that works best for your organization
for upgrades. Teleport provides a scheduled maintenance time window for any
upgrades, patches and other required updates for all tenants. An upgrade for
your tenant will not start earlier than the window start time you set.

To set the window start time select your username in the Web UI, then the Help
& Support option from the drop-down. The Scheduled Upgrades section within that
page allows you to configure the window start time.

Teleport recommends subscribing to the Teleport Enterprise Cloud updates at
[status.teleport.sh](https://status.teleport.sh) to keep up to date on
scheduled maintenance.

### How can I find version information on connected agents?

To find the version of Teleport agent is attached to your cluster, run the
following commands for the different protocols we support.

```code
$ tctl get nodes --format=text
$ tctl get kube_server --format=text
$ tctl get app_server --format=text
$ tctl get db_server --format=text
$ tctl get windows_desktop_service --format=text
```

Below you can see sample output of `tctl get nodes --format=text`. Note the
`Version` column will contain the version of the attached agent.

```code
$ tctl get nodes --format=text
Host     UUID                                 Public Address Labels Version
-------- ------------------------------------ -------------- ------ ----------
server01 46d8cad0-8967-4815-a01a-77aae62c34fe 127.0.0.1:3022        12.0.0
server02 c33b5513-a9eb-463b-8f1b-1f209afe5b4f 127.0.0.1:3122        12.0.0
```

## Architecture and networking

### Which Proxy Service ports are open on my Teleport Enterprise Cloud tenant?

Teleport Enterprise Cloud allocates a different set of ports to each tenant. To see which
ports are available for your Teleport Enterprise Cloud tenant, run a command similar to the
following, replacing `mytenant.teleport.sh` with your tenant domain:

```code
$ curl https://mytenant.teleport.sh/webapi/ping | jq '.proxy'
```

The output should resemble the following, including the unique ports assigned to
your tenant:

```json
{
  "kube": {
    "enabled": true,
    "public_addr": "mytenant.teleport.sh:11107",
    "listen_addr": "0.0.0.0:3026"
  },
  "ssh": {
    "listen_addr": "[::]:3023",
    "tunnel_listen_addr": "0.0.0.0:3024",
    "public_addr": "mytenant.teleport.sh:443",
    "ssh_public_addr": "mytenant.teleport.sh:11105",
    "ssh_tunnel_public_addr": "mytenant.teleport.sh:11106"
  },
  "db": {
    "postgres_public_addr": "mytenant.teleport.sh:11109",
    "mysql_listen_addr": "0.0.0.0:3036",
    "mysql_public_addr": "mytenant.teleport.sh:11108"
  },
  "tls_routing_enabled": true
}
```

This output also indicates whether TLS routing is enabled for your tenant. When
TLS routing is enabled, connections to a Teleport service (e.g., the Teleport
SSH Service) are routed through the Proxy Service's public web address, rather
than through a port allocated to that service.

In this case, you can see that TLS routing is enabled, and that the Proxy
Service's public web address (`ssh.public_addr`) is `mytenant.teleport.sh:443`.

Read more in our [TLS Routing](../../architecture/tls-routing.mdx) guide.

### How does Teleport manage web certificates? Can I upload my own?

Teleport uses [letsencrypt.org](https://letsencrypt.org/) to issue
certificates for every customer. It is not possible to upload a custom
certificate or use a custom domain name.

### Where does Teleport Enterprise Cloud run?

Teleport Enterprise Cloud is deployed within AWS, using S3 and DynamoDB for storage with AWS-managed encryption keys. All data is currently hosted in us-west-2.
Currently there is no option to select an alternative region for storage.

### Are you using AWS-managed encryption keys, or CMKs via KMS?

We use AWS-managed keys. Currently there is no option to provide your own key.

### Is this Teleport's S3 bucket, or my bucket based on my AWS credentials?

It's a Teleport-managed S3 bucket with AWS-managed keys.
Currently there is no way to provide your own bucket.

### Is IPv6 Supported for connections to Teleport Enterprise Cloud?

We don't currently support IPv6 connections to Teleport Enterprise Cloud.

### Can I change the domain name of my Cloud instance after it's been created?

We're currently researching whether this can be done, so please contact support at support@goteleport.com.

### Is FIPS mode an option?

FIPS is not currently an option for Teleport Enterprise Cloud clusters.


## Performance and reliability

### Can I use Teleport Enterprise Cloud in production?

Yes. Large organizations leverage Teleport Enterprise Cloud to manage the vast number of resources in their organization. Teleport Enterprise Cloud is audited regularly to ensure the most reliable and secure service possible is available to our customers.

### What is the Cloud SLA?

Teleport Enterprise Cloud commits to an SLA of (=cloud.sla.monthly_percentage=) of monthly uptime,
a maximum of (=cloud.sla.monthly_downtime=) of downtime per month. While we routinely exceed this SLA,
this number reflects risks in our architecture that we will improve over time.

### Is there a status page available?

[status.teleport.sh](https://status.teleport.sh)

### Can I get push notifications of Teleport Enterprise Cloud downtime?

Yes. Customers can subscribe to Teleport Enterprise Cloud updates at [status.teleport.sh](https://status.teleport.sh).

### Can I retrieve diagnostics from my hosted cluster?

We currently don't expose any metrics interfaces for a tenant.

For our own metrics collection, we're rolling out mTLS, so that only authorized internal clients may collect or scrape metrics from the running instances.
This design does not include a mechanism to issue mTLS certificates to external clients, while maintaining isolation guarantees that one tenant cannot interact with another tenant.

Teleport cloud tenants are made up of a cluster of processes, with designated processes sitting behind a load balancer. To scrape the entire cluster would require each component of
the Teleport cluster to be individually addressable and accessible from external sources. This could allow individual components to be selectively attacked, if an adversary is able to
address traffic to any individual software instance within the cluster.

### How do I set up recovery codes for my account so I don't lose access?

We have a [short step-by-step guide](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/discussions/12379) on setting up recovery codes.
