docs/pages/access-controls/idps/saml-grafana.mdx, before:

---
title: Use Teleport's SAML Provider to authenticate with Grafana
description: Configure Grafana to use identities provided by Teleport.
---

Grafana is an open-source observability platform. Their enterprise version supports
SAML authentication. This guide will help you configure Teleport as a SAML provider,
and Grafana to accept the identities it provides.

Note that Teleport can act as an identity provider to any SAML-compatible service,
not just those running behind the Teleport App Service.

## Prerequisites

- An instance of Grafana Enterprise, with edit access to `grafana.ini`.
  - A trusted certificate authority to create TLS certificates/keys for the SAML connection.

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/3. Configure a Teleport role with access to SAML service provider objects

First we need to ensure you are logged into Teleport as a user that has permissions
to read and modify `saml_idp_service_provider` objects. The default `editor` role
has access to this already, but in case you are using a more customized configuration,
create a role called `sp-manager.yaml` with the following contents:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v6
metadata:
  name: sp-manager
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources: [saml_idp_service_provider]
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
```

Create it with `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create sp-manager.yaml 
role 'saml-idp-service-provider-manager' has been created
```

(!docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx role="saml_idp_service_provider" !)

## Step 2/3. Configure Grafana to recognize Teleport's identity provider

The first step in configuring Grafana for SSO is retrieving Teleport's
SAML identity provider metadata. You can obtain this metadata in XML format by
navigating to `https://<proxy-address>/enterprise/saml-idp/metadata`. Save
it in an easy to remember file name like `teleport-metadata.xml`.

Encode the metadata using `base64` to provide to the Grafana config:

```code
$ cat teleport-metadata.xml | base64
```

From the Grafana host, edit `grafana.ini` by adding a `[auth.saml]` section:

```ini
[auth.saml]
enabled = true
auto_login = false
private_key_path = '/path/to/certs/grafana-host-key.pem'
certificate_path = '/path/to/certs/grafana-host.pem'
idp_metadata = 'PEVudGl0eURl.....'
assertion_attribute_name = uid
assertion_attribute_login = uid
assertion_attribute_email = uid
assertion_attribute_groups = eduPersonAffiliation
```

| Key                | Value                                                          |
|--------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| `enabled`          | Set to `true` to enable SAML authentication.                   |
| `auto_login`       | When set to `true`, enables auto-login using SAML.             |
| `private_key_path` | Path to the TLS key used to identify Grafana.                  |
| `certificate_path` | Path to the TLS certificate used to identify Grafana.          |
| `idp_metadata`     | The base64-encoded contents of the Teleport metadata XML file. |
| `assertion_*`      | Various Grafana user fields to be mapped to SAML assertions.   |

For more information on editing `grafana.ini` for SAML, you can review their [Configure
SAML authentication in Grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication/saml/)
page.

## Step 3/3. Add service provider metadata to Teleport

After restarting Grafana with the edited configuration, download its SAML metadata
from the path `/saml/metadata`. Create the file `grafana-sp.yaml` to define this
service provider, using the downloaded metadata for the value of `entity_descriptor`:

```yaml
kind: saml_idp_service_provider
metadata:
  # The friendly name of the service provider. This is used to manage the
  # service provider as well as in identity provider initiated SSO.
  name: saml-grafana
spec:
  # The entity_descriptor is the service provider XML.
  entity_descriptor: |
    <md:EntityDescriptor xmlns:md="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:metadata"...
version: v1
```

Add the service provider definition to Teleport:

```code
$ tctl create grafana-sp.yaml
```

The Grafana login screen now has a "Sign in with SAML" button, which will direct
you to the Teleport login screen. Or, if you've set `auto_login = true`, you will
be redirected automatically.

Commit message:

add docs for idp-initiated sso for grafana (#28645)

docs/pages/access-controls/idps/saml-grafana.mdx, after:

---
title: Use Teleport's SAML Provider to authenticate with Grafana
description: Configure Grafana to use identities provided by Teleport.
---

Grafana is an open-source observability platform. Their enterprise version supports
SAML authentication. This guide will help you configure Teleport as a SAML provider,
and Grafana to accept the identities it provides.

Note that Teleport can act as an identity provider to any SAML-compatible service,
not just those running behind the Teleport App Service.

## Prerequisites

- An instance of Grafana Enterprise, with edit access to `grafana.ini`.
  - A trusted certificate authority to create TLS certificates/keys for the SAML connection.

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/3. Configure a Teleport role with access to SAML service provider objects

First we need to ensure you are logged into Teleport as a user that has permissions
to read and modify `saml_idp_service_provider` objects. The default `editor` role
has access to this already, but in case you are using a more customized configuration,
create a role called `sp-manager.yaml` with the following contents:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v6
metadata:
  name: sp-manager
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources: [saml_idp_service_provider]
      verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
```

Create it with `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create sp-manager.yaml 
role 'saml-idp-service-provider-manager' has been created
```

(!docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx role="saml_idp_service_provider" !)

## Step 2/3. Configure Grafana to recognize Teleport's identity provider

The first step in configuring Grafana for SSO is retrieving Teleport's
SAML identity provider metadata. You can obtain this metadata in XML format by
navigating to `https://<proxy-address>/enterprise/saml-idp/metadata`. Save
it in an easy to remember file name like `teleport-metadata.xml`.

Encode the metadata using `base64` to provide to the Grafana config:

```code
$ cat teleport-metadata.xml | base64
```

From the Grafana host, edit `grafana.ini` by adding a `[auth.saml]` section:

```ini
[auth.saml]
enabled = true
auto_login = false
allow_idp_initiated = true
relay_state = ""
private_key_path = '/path/to/certs/grafana-host-key.pem'
certificate_path = '/path/to/certs/grafana-host.pem'
idp_metadata = 'PEVudGl0eURl.....'
assertion_attribute_name = uid
assertion_attribute_login = uid
assertion_attribute_email = uid
assertion_attribute_groups = eduPersonAffiliation
```

| Key                   | Value                                                                                 |
|-----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `enabled`             | Set to `true` to enable SAML authentication.                                          |
| `auto_login`          | When set to `true`, enables auto-login using SAML.                                    |
| `allow_idp_initiated` | Set to `true` to allow IdP-initiated login.                                           |
| `relay_state`         | Relay state for IdP-initiated login. Must be set to `""` to work with Teleport's IdP. |
| `private_key_path`    | Path to the TLS key used to identify Grafana.                                         |
| `certificate_path`    | Path to the TLS certificate used to identify Grafana.                                 |
| `idp_metadata`        | The base64-encoded contents of the Teleport metadata XML file.                        |
| `assertion_*`         | Various Grafana user fields to be mapped to SAML assertions.                          |

For more information on editing `grafana.ini` for SAML, you can review their [Configure
SAML authentication in Grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication/saml/)
page.

## Step 3/3. Add service provider metadata to Teleport

After restarting Grafana with the edited configuration, download its SAML metadata
from the path `/saml/metadata`. Create the file `grafana-sp.yaml` to define this
service provider, using the downloaded metadata for the value of `entity_descriptor`:

```yaml
kind: saml_idp_service_provider
metadata:
  # The friendly name of the service provider. This is used to manage the
  # service provider as well as in identity provider initiated SSO.
  name: saml-grafana
spec:
  # The entity_descriptor is the service provider XML.
  entity_descriptor: |
    <md:EntityDescriptor xmlns:md="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:metadata"...
version: v1
```

Add the service provider definition to Teleport:

```code
$ tctl create grafana-sp.yaml
```

The Grafana login screen now has a "Sign in with SAML" button, which will direct
you to the Teleport login screen. Or, if you've set `auto_login = true`, you will
be redirected automatically.
