docs/pages/management/export-audit-events.mdx, before:

---
title: Exporting Teleport Audit Events
description: Learn how to export Teleport audit events to your log management solution.
---

The Teleport Auth Service emits audit logs when users and services interact with
your cluster.

You can use Teleport's Event Handler plugin to export audit events from Teleport
so you can store them in a log management platform or custom backend.

If you are new to exporting audit events with Teleport, read [Forwarding Events
with Fluentd](./export-audit-events/fluentd.mdx) to learn the basics of how our
Event Handler plugin works. While this guide focuses on Fluentd, the Event
Handler plugin can export audit events to any endpoint that ingests JSON
messages via HTTP.

Next, read our guides to setting up the Event Handler plugin to export audit
events to your solution of choice:

- [Export Teleport Audit Events with
  Datadog](./export-audit-events/datadog.mdx): Learn how to configure the Event
  Handler plugin and Fluentd (with the Datadog plugin) to export audit events to
  Datadog.
- [Monitor Teleport Audit Events with the Elastic
  Stack](./export-audit-events/elastic-stack.mdx): How to configure the Event
  Handler plugin to forward Teleport audit logs to Logstash for ingestion in
  Elasticsearch so you can explore them in Kibana.
- [Monitor Teleport Audit Events with Splunk](./export-audit-events/splunk.mdx):
  How to configure the Event Handler plugin to send logs to Splunk's Universal
  Forwarder so you can explore your audit events in Splunk.

Commit message:

docs: include Panther link in export audit logs intro (#45118)
Co-authored-by: Steven Martin <stevenmartin@Stevens-MacBook-Pro.local>

docs/pages/management/export-audit-events.mdx, after:

---
title: Exporting Teleport Audit Events
description: Learn how to export Teleport audit events to your log management solution.
---

The Teleport Auth Service emits audit logs when users and services interact with
your cluster.

You can use Teleport's Event Handler plugin to export audit events from Teleport
so you can store them in a log management platform or custom backend.

If you are new to exporting audit events with Teleport, read [Forwarding Events
with Fluentd](./export-audit-events/fluentd.mdx) to learn the basics of how our
Event Handler plugin works. While this guide focuses on Fluentd, the Event
Handler plugin can export audit events to any endpoint that ingests JSON
messages via HTTP.

Next, read our guides to setting up the Event Handler plugin to export audit
events to your solution of choice:

- [Export Teleport Audit Events with
  Datadog](./export-audit-events/datadog.mdx): Learn how to configure the Event
  Handler plugin and Fluentd (with the Datadog plugin) to export audit events to
  Datadog.
- [Monitor Teleport Audit Events with the Elastic
  Stack](./export-audit-events/elastic-stack.mdx): How to configure the Event
  Handler plugin to forward Teleport audit logs to Logstash for ingestion in
  Elasticsearch so you can explore them in Kibana.
- [Monitor Teleport Audit Events with Panther](./export-audit-events/panther.mdx):
  How to configure the Event Handler plugin to send logs to Panther via Fluentd
  so you can explore your audit events in Panther.
- [Monitor Teleport Audit Events with Splunk](./export-audit-events/splunk.mdx):
  How to configure the Event Handler plugin to send logs to Splunk's Universal
  Forwarder so you can explore your audit events in Splunk.
