docs/pages/reference/cli/tbot.mdx, before:

---
title: tbot CLI reference
description: Comprehensive reference of subcommands, flags, and arguments for the tbot CLI tool.
---

`tbot` is a CLI tool used with **Machine ID** that programatically issues and renews
short-lived certificates to any service account (e.g, a CI/CD server).

The primary commands for `tbot` are as follows:

| Command | Description |
| - | - |
| `tbot help` | Outputs guidance for using commands with `tbot`. |
| `tbot version` | Outputs the current version of the `tbot` binary. |
| `tbot configure` | Outputs a basic Machine ID client configuration file to be adjusted as needed. |
| `tbot start` | Starts the Machine ID client `tbot`, fetching and writing certificates to disk at a set interval. |
| `tbot init` | Initialize a certificate destination directory for writes from a separate bot user, configuring either file or POSIX ACL permissions. |
| `tbot db` | Connects to databases using native clients and queries database information. Functions as a wrapper for `tsh`, and requires `tsh` installation. |
| `tbot proxy` | Allows for access to Teleport resources on a cluster using TLS Routing. Functions as a wrapper for `tsh`, and requires `tsh` installation. |
| `tbot tpm identify` | Output identifying information related to the TPM (Trusted Platform Module) detected on the system. |

## tbot db

Connects to databases using native clients and queries database information. This is best used for testing and validation purposes;
most users will likely prefer to connect their own databases to a local proxy using `tbot proxy db`.

Note that `tsh` must be installed to make use of this command.

### Flags

| Flag                | Description                                                                                              |
|---------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-d/--debug`        | Enable verbose logging to stderr.                                                                        |
| `-c/--config`       | Path to a Machine ID configuration file. Required if not using other required configuration flags.                  |
| `--destination-dir` | Path to the Machine ID destination dir that should be used for authentication. Required.                 |
| `--proxy-server`    | The `host:port` of the Teleport Proxy Service to use to access resources. Required.                      |
| `--cluster`         | The name of the cluster on which resources should be accessed. Extracted from the bot identity if unset. |

All other flags and arguments are passed directly to `tsh db ...`, along
with authentication parameters to use the Machine ID identity to skip `tsh`'s
login steps.

Note that certain CLI parameters, for example `--help`, may be captured by
`tbot` even if intended to be passed to the wrapped `tsh`. A `--` argument can
be used to ensure all following arguments are passed to `tsh` and ignored by
`tbot`.

Additionally, be aware of the following limitations of `tbot db`:
 - `tbot db connect` requires a `tbot db login` for certain database types,
   like MySQL, so that additional connection parameters can be written to a
   local configuration file.
 - `tbot db env` is not fully supported.

## tbot init

Initializes a certificate destination directory for access from a separate bot user. Allows for certificates to be written to disks other than a Machine ID client,
configuring either file or POSIX ACL permissions.

### Flags

| Flag                | Description                                                                                                        |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-d/--debug`        | Enable verbose logging to stderr.                                                                                  |
| `-c/--config`       | Path to a Machine ID configuration file.                                                                                      |
| `--destination-dir` | Directory to write short-lived machine certificates to.                                                            |
| `--owner`           | Defines the Linux `user:group` owner of `--destination-dir`. Defaults to the Linux user running `tbot` if unspecified. |
| `--bot-user`        | Enables POSIX ACLs and defines the Linux user that can read/write short-lived certificates to `--destination-dir`. |
| `--reader-user`     | Enables POSIX ACLs and defines the Linux user that will read short-lived certificates from `--destination-dir`.    |
| `--init-dir`        | If using a config file and multiple destinations are configured, controls which destination dir to configure.      |
| `--clean`           | If set, remove unexpected files and directories from the destination.                                              |
| `--log-format`      | Controls the format of output logs. Can be `json` or `text`. Defaults to `text`.                                   |

### Examples

**Example using file permissions.**

The following command highlights how to set permissions with `tbot` through Linux groups, using the user and group `jenkins:jenkins`.
If running `tbot` as the Linux user `root`, use the following invocation of
`tbot init` to initialize the short-lived certificate directory
`/opt/machine-id` with owner `jenkins:jenkins`.

```code
$ tbot init \
    --destination-dir=/opt/machine-id \
    --owner=jenkins:jenkins
```

**Example using POSIX ACLs.**

If running `tbot` as the Linux user `teleport`, use the following invocation of
`tbot init` to initialize the short-lived certificate directory
`/opt/machine-id` with owner `teleport:teleport` but allow `jenkins` to read
from `/opt/machine-id`.

```code
$ tbot init \
    --destination-dir=/opt/machine-id \
    --bot-user=teleport \
    --reader-user=jenkins
```

## tbot proxy

Allows for access to Teleport resources via a local TLS proxy in TLS Routing mode.
The `tbot proxy` command acts as a wrapper for `tsh proxy` to provide local proxy functionality for various protocols.

Note that `tsh` must be installed to make use of this command.

### Flags

| Flag                | Description                                                                                              |
|---------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-d/--debug`        | Enable verbose logging to stderr.                                                                        |
| `-c/--config`       | Path to a Machine ID configuration file. Required if not using other required configuration flags.       |
| `--destination-dir` | Path to the Machine ID destination dir that should be used for authentication. Required.                 |
| `--proxy-server`    | The `host:port` of the Teleport Proxy Service through which resources will be accessed. Required.        |
| `--cluster`         | The name of the cluster on which resources should be accessed. Extracted from the bot identity if unset. |

All other flags and arguments are passed directly to `tsh proxy ...`, along
with authentication parameters to use the Machine ID identity to skip `tsh`'s
login step.

Additionally, the following should be noted:

- Certain CLI parameters, for example `--help`, may be captured by
`tbot` even if intended to be passed to the wrapped `tsh`. A `--` argument can
be used to ensure all following arguments are passed to `tsh` and ignored by
`tbot`
- If no configuration file is provided, `tbot` will apply a sample configuration based on provided CLI flags.
For this reason, it is recommended that settings are explicitly applied to a configuration file in production.

### Examples

**Example using OpenSSH**

The following command forwards standard input and output over a proxy suitable for use as an OpenSSH `ProxyCommand` for SSH access:

```code
$ tbot proxy --destination-dir=./tbot-user --proxy-server=proxy.example.com:3080 ssh alice@node:3022
```

  In this case:
   - `alice` is the remote username
   - `node` is the Teleport Node name
   - `3022` is the remote SSH port, which is `3022` for Nodes running the Teleport
     SSH service.

**Example using Database Access**

The following example opens a local proxy server to the given database. Your database client
must still be configured with client TLS certificates:

```code
$ tbot proxy --destination-dir=./tbot-user --proxy-server=proxy.example.com:3080 db --port=1234 example
```

In this case:
 - `example` is the name of the database server as it exists in Teleport
 - `1234` is an arbitrary port on which to run the proxy

Though not recommended, to avoid the need for additional client authentication,
the `--tunnel` flag may be used to perform authentication at the local proxy
rather than within your client:

```code
$ tbot proxy --destination-dir=./tbot-user --proxy-server=proxy.example.com:3080 db --tunnel --port=1234 example
```

Note that this decreases security:
 - It allows any user on the system to access the database via `localhost`.
 - Your connection to the database will be unencrypted until it reaches the
   `tbot` proxy running on `localhost`.

Refer to the [database guide](../../enroll-resources/machine-id/access-guides/databases.mdx) for more information on
using database proxies.

### Flags

| Flag                 | Description                                                                                    |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-d/--debug`         | Enable verbose logging to stderr.                                                              |
| `-c/--config`        | Path to a configuration file.                                                                  |
| `-a/--auth-server`   | Address of the Teleport Auth Service. Prefer using --proxy-server where possible                |
| `--proxy-server`     | Address of the Teleport Proxy Server.                                                          |
| `--token`            | A bot join token, if attempting to onboard a new bot; used on first connect. Can also be an absolute path to a file containing the token. |
| `--ca-pin`           | CA pin to validate the Teleport Auth Server; used on first connect.                            |
| `--data-dir`         | Directory to store internal bot data. In production environments access to this directory should be limited only to an isolated linux user as an owner with `0600` permissions. |
| `--destination-dir`  | Directory to write short-lived machine certificates.                                           |
| `--certificate-ttl`  | TTL of short-lived machine certificates.                                                       |
| `--renewal-interval` | Interval at which short-lived certificates are renewed; must be less than the certificate TTL. |
| `--join-method`      | Method to use to join the cluster. Can be `token` or `iam`.                                    |
| `--oneshot`          | If set, quit after the first renewal.                                                          |

## tbot start

Starts the Machine ID client `tbot`, fetching and writing certificates to disk at a set interval.

### Flags

| Flag                 | Description                                                                                    |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-d/--debug`         | Enable verbose logging to stderr.                                                              |
| `-c/--config`        | Path to a Machine ID configuration file.                                                       |
| `--[no-]fips`        | Whether to run tbot in FIPS compliance mode. This requires the FIPS `tbot` binary. |
| `-a/--auth-server`   | Address of the Teleport Auth Service. Prefer using --proxy-server where possible                |
| `--proxy-server`     | Address of the Teleport Proxy Server.                                                          |
| `--token`            | A bot join token, if attempting to onboard a new bot; used on first connect. Can also be an absolute path to a file containing the token. |
| `--ca-pin`           | CA pin to validate the Teleport Auth Server; used on first connect.                            |
| `--data-dir`         | Directory to store internal bot data. In production environments access to this directory should be limited only to an isolated linux user as an owner with `0600` permissions. |
| `--destination-dir`  | Directory to write short-lived machine certificates.                                           |
| `--certificate-ttl`  | TTL of short-lived machine certificates.                                                       |
| `--renewal-interval` | Interval at which short-lived certificates are renewed; must be less than the certificate TTL. |
| `--join-method`      | Method to use to join the cluster. Can be `token`, `azure`, `circleci`, `gcp`, `github`, `gitlab` or `iam`. |
| `--oneshot`          | If set, quit after the first renewal.                                                          |
| `--log-format`       | Controls the format of output logs. Can be `json` or `text`. Defaults to `text`.               |

### Examples
<Tabs>
  <TabItem scope={["cloud", "team"]} label="Cloud-Hosted">

```code
$ tbot start \
   --data-dir=/var/lib/teleport/bot \
   --destination-dir=/opt/machine-id \
   --token=00000000000000000000000000000000 \
   --join-method=token \
   --ca-pin=sha256:1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 \
   --proxy-server=example.teleport.sh:443
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem scope={["enterprise", "oss"]} label="Self-Hosted">

```code
$ tbot start \
   --data-dir=/var/lib/teleport/bot \
   --destination-dir=/opt/machine-id \
   --token=00000000000000000000000000000000 \
   --join-method=token \
   --ca-pin=sha256:1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 \
   --proxy-server=teleport.example.com:443
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## tbot tpm identify

Output identifying information related to the TPM (Trusted Platform Module)
detected on the system.

### Flags

| Flag                 | Description                        |
|----------------------|------------------------------------|
| `-d/--debug`         | Enable verbose logging to stderr.  |

Commit message:

[v16] Use new `tbot install systemd` command in docs (#44538)
* Add `tbot install systemd` to CLI reference

* Switch systemd unit file creation to new `tbot install systemd`

* Remove unused machine-id-service include

docs/pages/reference/cli/tbot.mdx, after:

---
title: tbot CLI reference
description: Comprehensive reference of subcommands, flags, and arguments for the tbot CLI tool.
---

`tbot` is a CLI tool used with **Machine ID** that programatically issues and renews
short-lived certificates to any service account (e.g, a CI/CD server).

The primary commands for `tbot` are as follows:

| Command | Description |
| - | - |
| `tbot help` | Outputs guidance for using commands with `tbot`. |
| `tbot version` | Outputs the current version of the `tbot` binary. |
| `tbot configure` | Outputs a basic Machine ID client configuration file to be adjusted as needed. |
| `tbot start` | Starts the Machine ID client `tbot`, fetching and writing certificates to disk at a set interval. |
| `tbot init` | Initialize a certificate destination directory for writes from a separate bot user, configuring either file or POSIX ACL permissions. |
| `tbot db` | Connects to databases using native clients and queries database information. Functions as a wrapper for `tsh`, and requires `tsh` installation. |
| `tbot proxy` | Allows for access to Teleport resources on a cluster using TLS Routing. Functions as a wrapper for `tsh`, and requires `tsh` installation. |
| `tbot tpm identify` | Output identifying information related to the TPM (Trusted Platform Module) detected on the system. |

## tbot db

Connects to databases using native clients and queries database information. This is best used for testing and validation purposes;
most users will likely prefer to connect their own databases to a local proxy using `tbot proxy db`.

Note that `tsh` must be installed to make use of this command.

### Flags

| Flag                | Description                                                                                              |
|---------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-d/--debug`        | Enable verbose logging to stderr.                                                                        |
| `-c/--config`       | Path to a Machine ID configuration file. Required if not using other required configuration flags.                  |
| `--destination-dir` | Path to the Machine ID destination dir that should be used for authentication. Required.                 |
| `--proxy-server`    | The `host:port` of the Teleport Proxy Service to use to access resources. Required.                      |
| `--cluster`         | The name of the cluster on which resources should be accessed. Extracted from the bot identity if unset. |

All other flags and arguments are passed directly to `tsh db ...`, along
with authentication parameters to use the Machine ID identity to skip `tsh`'s
login steps.

Note that certain CLI parameters, for example `--help`, may be captured by
`tbot` even if intended to be passed to the wrapped `tsh`. A `--` argument can
be used to ensure all following arguments are passed to `tsh` and ignored by
`tbot`.

Additionally, be aware of the following limitations of `tbot db`:
 - `tbot db connect` requires a `tbot db login` for certain database types,
   like MySQL, so that additional connection parameters can be written to a
   local configuration file.
 - `tbot db env` is not fully supported.

## tbot init

Initializes a certificate destination directory for access from a separate bot user. Allows for certificates to be written to disks other than a Machine ID client,
configuring either file or POSIX ACL permissions.

### Flags

| Flag                | Description                                                                                                        |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-d/--debug`        | Enable verbose logging to stderr.                                                                                  |
| `-c/--config`       | Path to a Machine ID configuration file.                                                                                      |
| `--destination-dir` | Directory to write short-lived machine certificates to.                                                            |
| `--owner`           | Defines the Linux `user:group` owner of `--destination-dir`. Defaults to the Linux user running `tbot` if unspecified. |
| `--bot-user`        | Enables POSIX ACLs and defines the Linux user that can read/write short-lived certificates to `--destination-dir`. |
| `--reader-user`     | Enables POSIX ACLs and defines the Linux user that will read short-lived certificates from `--destination-dir`.    |
| `--init-dir`        | If using a config file and multiple destinations are configured, controls which destination dir to configure.      |
| `--clean`           | If set, remove unexpected files and directories from the destination.                                              |
| `--log-format`      | Controls the format of output logs. Can be `json` or `text`. Defaults to `text`.                                   |

### Examples

**Example using file permissions.**

The following command highlights how to set permissions with `tbot` through Linux groups, using the user and group `jenkins:jenkins`.
If running `tbot` as the Linux user `root`, use the following invocation of
`tbot init` to initialize the short-lived certificate directory
`/opt/machine-id` with owner `jenkins:jenkins`.

```code
$ tbot init \
    --destination-dir=/opt/machine-id \
    --owner=jenkins:jenkins
```

**Example using POSIX ACLs.**

If running `tbot` as the Linux user `teleport`, use the following invocation of
`tbot init` to initialize the short-lived certificate directory
`/opt/machine-id` with owner `teleport:teleport` but allow `jenkins` to read
from `/opt/machine-id`.

```code
$ tbot init \
    --destination-dir=/opt/machine-id \
    --bot-user=teleport \
    --reader-user=jenkins
```

## tbot proxy

Allows for access to Teleport resources via a local TLS proxy in TLS Routing mode.
The `tbot proxy` command acts as a wrapper for `tsh proxy` to provide local proxy functionality for various protocols.

Note that `tsh` must be installed to make use of this command.

### Flags

| Flag                | Description                                                                                              |
|---------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-d/--debug`        | Enable verbose logging to stderr.                                                                        |
| `-c/--config`       | Path to a Machine ID configuration file. Required if not using other required configuration flags.       |
| `--destination-dir` | Path to the Machine ID destination dir that should be used for authentication. Required.                 |
| `--proxy-server`    | The `host:port` of the Teleport Proxy Service through which resources will be accessed. Required.        |
| `--cluster`         | The name of the cluster on which resources should be accessed. Extracted from the bot identity if unset. |

All other flags and arguments are passed directly to `tsh proxy ...`, along
with authentication parameters to use the Machine ID identity to skip `tsh`'s
login step.

Additionally, the following should be noted:

- Certain CLI parameters, for example `--help`, may be captured by
`tbot` even if intended to be passed to the wrapped `tsh`. A `--` argument can
be used to ensure all following arguments are passed to `tsh` and ignored by
`tbot`
- If no configuration file is provided, `tbot` will apply a sample configuration based on provided CLI flags.
For this reason, it is recommended that settings are explicitly applied to a configuration file in production.

### Examples

**Example using OpenSSH**

The following command forwards standard input and output over a proxy suitable for use as an OpenSSH `ProxyCommand` for SSH access:

```code
$ tbot proxy --destination-dir=./tbot-user --proxy-server=proxy.example.com:3080 ssh alice@node:3022
```

  In this case:
   - `alice` is the remote username
   - `node` is the Teleport Node name
   - `3022` is the remote SSH port, which is `3022` for Nodes running the Teleport
     SSH service.

**Example using Database Access**

The following example opens a local proxy server to the given database. Your database client
must still be configured with client TLS certificates:

```code
$ tbot proxy --destination-dir=./tbot-user --proxy-server=proxy.example.com:3080 db --port=1234 example
```

In this case:
 - `example` is the name of the database server as it exists in Teleport
 - `1234` is an arbitrary port on which to run the proxy

Though not recommended, to avoid the need for additional client authentication,
the `--tunnel` flag may be used to perform authentication at the local proxy
rather than within your client:

```code
$ tbot proxy --destination-dir=./tbot-user --proxy-server=proxy.example.com:3080 db --tunnel --port=1234 example
```

Note that this decreases security:
 - It allows any user on the system to access the database via `localhost`.
 - Your connection to the database will be unencrypted until it reaches the
   `tbot` proxy running on `localhost`.

Refer to the [database guide](../../enroll-resources/machine-id/access-guides/databases.mdx) for more information on
using database proxies.

### Flags

| Flag                 | Description                                                                                    |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-d/--debug`         | Enable verbose logging to stderr.                                                              |
| `-c/--config`        | Path to a configuration file.                                                                  |
| `-a/--auth-server`   | Address of the Teleport Auth Service. Prefer using --proxy-server where possible                |
| `--proxy-server`     | Address of the Teleport Proxy Server.                                                          |
| `--token`            | A bot join token, if attempting to onboard a new bot; used on first connect. Can also be an absolute path to a file containing the token. |
| `--ca-pin`           | CA pin to validate the Teleport Auth Server; used on first connect.                            |
| `--data-dir`         | Directory to store internal bot data. In production environments access to this directory should be limited only to an isolated linux user as an owner with `0600` permissions. |
| `--destination-dir`  | Directory to write short-lived machine certificates.                                           |
| `--certificate-ttl`  | TTL of short-lived machine certificates.                                                       |
| `--renewal-interval` | Interval at which short-lived certificates are renewed; must be less than the certificate TTL. |
| `--join-method`      | Method to use to join the cluster. Can be `token` or `iam`.                                    |
| `--oneshot`          | If set, quit after the first renewal.                                                          |

## tbot start

Starts the Machine ID client `tbot`, fetching and writing certificates to disk at a set interval.

### Flags

| Flag                 | Description                                                                                    |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-d/--debug`         | Enable verbose logging to stderr.                                                              |
| `-c/--config`        | Path to a Machine ID configuration file.                                                       |
| `--[no-]fips`        | Whether to run tbot in FIPS compliance mode. This requires the FIPS `tbot` binary. |
| `-a/--auth-server`   | Address of the Teleport Auth Service. Prefer using --proxy-server where possible                |
| `--proxy-server`     | Address of the Teleport Proxy Server.                                                          |
| `--token`            | A bot join token, if attempting to onboard a new bot; used on first connect. Can also be an absolute path to a file containing the token. |
| `--ca-pin`           | CA pin to validate the Teleport Auth Server; used on first connect.                            |
| `--data-dir`         | Directory to store internal bot data. In production environments access to this directory should be limited only to an isolated linux user as an owner with `0600` permissions. |
| `--destination-dir`  | Directory to write short-lived machine certificates.                                           |
| `--certificate-ttl`  | TTL of short-lived machine certificates.                                                       |
| `--renewal-interval` | Interval at which short-lived certificates are renewed; must be less than the certificate TTL. |
| `--join-method`      | Method to use to join the cluster. Can be `token`, `azure`, `circleci`, `gcp`, `github`, `gitlab` or `iam`. |
| `--oneshot`          | If set, quit after the first renewal.                                                          |
| `--log-format`       | Controls the format of output logs. Can be `json` or `text`. Defaults to `text`.               |

### Examples
<Tabs>
  <TabItem scope={["cloud", "team"]} label="Cloud-Hosted">

```code
$ tbot start \
   --data-dir=/var/lib/teleport/bot \
   --destination-dir=/opt/machine-id \
   --token=00000000000000000000000000000000 \
   --join-method=token \
   --ca-pin=sha256:1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 \
   --proxy-server=example.teleport.sh:443
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem scope={["enterprise", "oss"]} label="Self-Hosted">

```code
$ tbot start \
   --data-dir=/var/lib/teleport/bot \
   --destination-dir=/opt/machine-id \
   --token=00000000000000000000000000000000 \
   --join-method=token \
   --ca-pin=sha256:1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 \
   --proxy-server=teleport.example.com:443
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## tbot install systemd

Generates and installs a systemd unit file for a specific tbot configuration.

### Flags

| Flag                  | Description                                                                                                                      |
|-----------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-d/--debug`          | Enable verbose logging to stderr.                                                                                                |
| `-c/--config`         | Path to a configuration file.                                                                                                    |
| `--write `            | Write the systemd unit file. If not specified, this command runs in a dry-run mode that outputs the generated content to stdout. |
| `--systemd-directory` | Path to the directory that the systemd unit file should be written. Defaults to '/etc/systemd/system'.                           |
| `--force`             | Overwrite existing systemd unit file if present.                                                                                 |
| `--name`              | Name for the systemd unit. Defaults to 'tbot'.                                                                                   |
| `--user`              | The user that the service should run as. Defaults to 'teleport'.                                                                 |
| `--group`             | The group that the service should run as. Defaults to 'teleport'.                                                                |

### Examples

```code
$ tbot install systemd \
   --config=/etc/tbot.yaml \
   ---write
```
