docs/pages/management/operations/ca-rotation.mdx, before:

---
title: Cert Authority Rotation
description: How to rotate Teleport's certificate authority
---

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Certificate authority rotation

This section will show you how to rotate Teleport's certificate authority.

If you are joining Teleport processes to a cluster via the Teleport Auth Service
using a [join token](../../enroll-resources/agents/join-services-to-your-cluster/join-token.mdx), each
Teleport process will need a CA pin to trust the Auth Service. The CA pin will
change after each `host` CA rotation. Make sure you use the *new* CA pin when adding
Teleport services after `host` CA rotation.

<Admonition type="warning" title="Exported CAs">
Teleport signs Windows Desktop client certificates with the `user` certificate
authority.
If the `user` CA is rotated, the new CA certificate must be exported and
configured in group policy.

Teleport signs self-hosted database host certificates with the `db` certificate
authority and signs database client certificates with the `db_client` CA.
If either of these CAs is rotated, then self-hosted databases must be
reconfigured.
Refer to [the Database CA Rotation Guide](./db-ca-rotation.mdx).
</Admonition>

### Rotation phases

The rotation consists of several phases:

- `standby`: All operations have completed or haven't started yet.
- `init`: All components are notified of the rotation. A new certificate
  authority is issued, but not used. It is necessary for remote trusted clusters
  to fetch the new certificate authority, otherwise new clients will reject it.
- `update_clients`: Internal clients certs are updated and reloaded. Servers
  will use and respond with old credentials because clients have no idea about
  new certificates at first.
- `update_servers`: Servers reload and start serving TLS and SSH certificates
  signed by the new certificate authority, but will still accept certificates
  issued by the old certificate authority.
- `rollback`: The rotation was aborted and is rolling back to the old
  certificate authority.

### Rotation types

There are two kinds of certificate rotations:

- **Manual:** it is the cluster administrator's responsibility to transition
  between each phase of the rotation while monitoring the state of the cluster.
  Manual rotations provide the greatest level of control, and are performed by
  providing the desired phase using the `--phase` flag with the
  `tctl auth rotate` command.
- **Semi-automatic:** Teleport automatically transitions between phases of the
  rotation after some amount of time (known as a *grace period*) elapses.

For both types of rotation, the cluster goes through the phases in the
following order:

- `standby` -> `init` -> `update_clients` -> `update_servers` -> `standby`

Administrators can abort the rotation and revert all changes any time before
the rotation is completed by entering the `rollback` phase.

```code
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --type=<Var name="type" description="Certificate authority to rotate"/> --phase=rollback 
```

For example, if an admin has detected that some nodes failed to upgrade during
`update_servers`, they can roll back to the previous certificate authority, and
the phase transitions look like this:

- `update_servers` -> `rollback` -> `standby`.

<Admonition>
  Try rotation/rollback in manual mode first to understand all the edge-cases
  and gotchas before going with semi-automatic version.
</Admonition>

To specify which certificate authority to rotate, you must provide a value via
the `--type` flag. If no value is provided, `tctl` will display an error and exit.

## Manual rotation

In manual mode, we manually transition between phases while monitoring the state
of the cluster.

**Start the rotation**

Initiate the manual rotation of host certificate authorities:

```code
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --type=<Var name="type" description="Certificate authority to rotate"/> --phase=init 
Updated rotation phase to "init". To check status use 'tctl status'
```

Use `tctl` to confirm that there is an active rotation in progress:

```code
$ tctl status
# Cluster  acme.cluster
# Version  (=teleport.version=)
# Host CA  initialized (mode: manual, started: Sep 20 01:44:36 UTC, ending: Sep 21 2023 07:44:36 UTC)
# User CA  rotated Sep 20 2023 01:42:54 UTC
# Jwt CA   rotated Sep 20 2023 01:42:54 UTC
# CA pin   sha256:hash
```

Check the status of connected nodes:

```code
# Check rotation status of the nodes
$ tctl get nodes --format=json | jq '.[] | {hostname: .spec.hostname, rotation: .spec.rotation.state, phase: .spec.rotation.phase}'
{
  "hostname": "terminal",
  "rotation": "in_progress",
  "phase": "init"
}
```

In this example, the node named `terminal` has updated its status to phase
`init`. This means it has downloaded a new CA public key and is ready for state
transitions.

<Admonition type="warning" title="Rotation warning">
  If some nodes are offline during rotation or have failed to update the status,
  you will lose connectivity after the transition `update_servers` -> `standby`.
  Make sure that all nodes are up to date with the transitions before
  proceeding.
</Admonition>

**Update clients**

Execute the transition from `init` to `update_clients`:

```code
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --type=<Var name="type" description="Certificate authority to rotate"/> --phase=update_clients
# Updated rotation phase to "update_clients". To check status use 'tctl status'
$ tctl status
# Cluster  acme.cluster
# Version  (=teleport.version=)
# Host CA  rotating clients (mode: manual, started: Sep 20 2023 01:44:36 UTC, ending: Sep 21 2023 07:44:36 UTC)
```

<Admonition type="note">
  Clients will temporarily lose connectivity during Proxy and Auth Server
  restarts.
</Admonition>

Verify that nodes have caught up and now see the current cluster state:

```code
$ tctl get nodes --format=json | jq '.[] | {hostname: .spec.hostname, rotation: .spec.rotation.state, phase: .spec.rotation.phase}'
{
  "hostname": "terminal",
  "rotation": "in_progress",
  "phase": "update_clients"
}
```

**Update servers**

Now that all nodes have caught up, execute the transition from `update_clients`
to `update_servers`:

```code
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --type=<Var name="type" description="Certificate authority to rotate"/> --phase=update_servers
# Updated rotation phase to "update_servers". To check status use 'tctl status'

$ tctl status
# Cluster  acme.cluster
# Version  (=teleport.version=)
# Host CA  rotating servers (mode: manual, started: Sep 20 2023 01:44:36 UTC, ending: Sep 21 2023 07:44:36 UTC)
```

<Admonition type="note">
  Usually if things go wrong, they go wrong at this transition. If you have lost
  connectivity to nodes, [roll back](#rollback) to the old certificate
  authority.
</Admonition>

Verify that nodes have caught up:

```code
$ tctl get nodes --format=json | jq '.[] | {hostname: .spec.hostname, rotation: .spec.rotation.state, phase: .spec.rotation.phase}'
{
  "hostname": "terminal",
  "rotation": "in_progress",
  "phase": "update_servers"
}
```

**Finish the rotation**

Before wrapping up, verify that you have not lost any nodes and can connect to them, for example:

```code
$ tsh ssh hello@terminal
```

<Admonition type="warning">
  This is the last stage where you have the opportunity to roll back. If you
  have lost connectivity to nodes, [roll back](#rollback) to the old certificate
  authority.
</Admonition>

```code
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --type=<Var name="type" description="Certificate authority to rotate"/> --phase=standby
```

Verify that the rotation has completed with `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl status
Cluster  acme.cluster
Version  (=teleport.version=)
Host CA  rotated Sep 20 2023 02:11:25 UTC
User CA  rotated Sep 20 2023 01:42:54 UTC
Jwt CA   rotated Sep 20 2023 01:42:54 UTC
CA pin   sha256:hash
```

Nodes should catch up and be on standby:

```code
$ tctl get nodes --format=json | jq '.[] | {hostname: .spec.hostname, rotation: .spec.rotation.state, phase: .spec.rotation.phase}'
{
  "hostname": "terminal",
  "rotation": "standby",
  "phase": "standby"
}
```

## Semi-Automatic rotation

<Admonition type="warning">
  Semi-automatic rotation executes the same steps as the manual rotation, but
  with a grace period between them. It currently does not track the states of
  the nodes and you can lose connectivity if things go wrong.
</Admonition>

You can trigger semi-automatic rotation by omitting the `--manual` and `--phase`
flags.

```code
$ tctl auth rotate --type=host
```

This will trigger a rotation process for hosts with a default grace period of
48 hours. During the grace period, certificates issued both by old and new
certificate authority work.

You can customize grace period and CA type with additional flags:

```code
# Rotate only user certificates with a grace period of 200 hours:
$ tctl auth rotate --type=user --grace-period=200h

# Rotate only host certificates with a grace period of 8 hours:
$ tctl auth rotate --type=host --grace-period=8h
```

The rotation takes time, especially for hosts, because each node in a cluster
needs to be notified that a rotation is taking place and request a new
certificate for itself before the grace period ends.

During semi-automatic rotations, Teleport will attempt to divide the grace
period so that it spends an equal amount of time in each phase before
transitioning to the next phase. This means that using a shorter grace period
will result in faster state transitions.

<Notice type="warning">
  Be careful when choosing a grace period when rotating host certificates.
</Notice>

The grace period needs to be long enough for all nodes in a cluster to request a
new certificate. If some nodes go offline during the rotation and come back only
after the grace period has ended, they will be forced to leave the cluster, i.e.
users will no longer be allowed to SSH into them.

Check the cluster status:

```code
$ tctl status
Cluster  acme.cluster
Version  (=teleport.version=)
Host CA  initialized (mode: manual, started: Sep 20 2023 01:44:36 UTC, ending: Sep 21 2023 07:44:36 UTC)
```

Check the status of individual nodes:

```code
# Check rotation status of the nodes
$ tctl get nodes --format=json | jq '.[] | {hostname: .spec.hostname, rotation: .spec.rotation.state, phase: .spec.rotation.phase}'
{
  "hostname": "terminal",
  "rotation": "in_progress",
  "phase": "init"
}
```

The node named `terminal` has updated its status to phase `init`. This means it
has downloaded a new CA public key and is ready for state transitions.

## Rollback

Rollback must be performed before the rotation enters `standby` state.

First, enter the rollback phase with a manual phase transition:

```code
$ tctl auth rotate --phase=rollback --type=<Var name="type" description="Certificate authority to rotate"/> --manual
# Updated rotation phase to "rollback". To check status use 'tctl status'
```

Make sure that any nodes which have already updated have caught up and entered
the `rollback` phase.

```code
# Check rotation status of the nodes
$ tctl get nodes --format=json | jq '.[] | {hostname: .spec.hostname, rotation: .spec.rotation.state, phase: .spec.rotation.phase}'
{
  "hostname": "terminal",
  "rotation": "in_progress",
  "phase": "rollback"
}
```

If connectivity to any of the nodes was lost during the rotation, this is likely
because they were still using the old cert authority. Connectivity to these
nodes should be restored when the rollback completes and the old certificate
authority is made active.

## Further reading

How the [Teleport Certificate Authority](../../architecture/authentication.mdx) works.

Commit message:

docs: update ca rotation warning

docs/pages/management/operations/ca-rotation.mdx, after:

---
title: Cert Authority Rotation
description: How to rotate Teleport's certificate authority
---

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Certificate authority rotation

This section will show you how to rotate Teleport's certificate authority.

If you are joining Teleport processes to a cluster via the Teleport Auth Service
using a [join token](../../enroll-resources/agents/join-services-to-your-cluster/join-token.mdx), each
Teleport process will need a CA pin to trust the Auth Service. The CA pin will
change after each `host` CA rotation. Make sure you use the *new* CA pin when adding
Teleport services after `host` CA rotation.

<Admonition type="warning" title="Exported CAs">
Joined OpenSSH servers will require reissuing and updating the HostKey
and HostCertificates installed.

Teleport signs Windows Desktop client certificates with the `user` certificate
authority.
If the `user` CA is rotated, the new CA certificate must be exported and
configured in group policy for Active Directory integrations. For local Windows
user access the Teleport Windows Auth Setup must be run to update the trusted CA
certificate.

Teleport signs self-hosted database host certificates with the `db` certificate
authority and signs database client certificates with the `db_client` CA.
If either of these CAs is rotated, then self-hosted databases must be
reconfigured.
Refer to [the Database CA Rotation Guide](./db-ca-rotation.mdx).


</Admonition>

### Rotation phases

The rotation consists of several phases:

- `standby`: All operations have completed or haven't started yet.
- `init`: All components are notified of the rotation. A new certificate
  authority is issued, but not used. It is necessary for remote trusted clusters
  to fetch the new certificate authority, otherwise new clients will reject it.
- `update_clients`: Internal clients certs are updated and reloaded. Servers
  will use and respond with old credentials because clients have no idea about
  new certificates at first.
- `update_servers`: Servers reload and start serving TLS and SSH certificates
  signed by the new certificate authority, but will still accept certificates
  issued by the old certificate authority.
- `rollback`: The rotation was aborted and is rolling back to the old
  certificate authority.

### Rotation types

There are two kinds of certificate rotations:

- **Manual:** it is the cluster administrator's responsibility to transition
  between each phase of the rotation while monitoring the state of the cluster.
  Manual rotations provide the greatest level of control, and are performed by
  providing the desired phase using the `--phase` flag with the
  `tctl auth rotate` command.
- **Semi-automatic:** Teleport automatically transitions between phases of the
  rotation after some amount of time (known as a *grace period*) elapses.

For both types of rotation, the cluster goes through the phases in the
following order:

- `standby` -> `init` -> `update_clients` -> `update_servers` -> `standby`

Administrators can abort the rotation and revert all changes any time before
the rotation is completed by entering the `rollback` phase.

```code
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --type=<Var name="type" description="Certificate authority to rotate"/> --phase=rollback 
```

For example, if an admin has detected that some nodes failed to upgrade during
`update_servers`, they can roll back to the previous certificate authority, and
the phase transitions look like this:

- `update_servers` -> `rollback` -> `standby`.

<Admonition>
  Try rotation/rollback in manual mode first to understand all the edge-cases
  and gotchas before going with semi-automatic version.
</Admonition>

To specify which certificate authority to rotate, you must provide a value via
the `--type` flag. If no value is provided, `tctl` will display an error and exit.

## Manual rotation

In manual mode, we manually transition between phases while monitoring the state
of the cluster.

**Start the rotation**

Initiate the manual rotation of host certificate authorities:

```code
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --type=<Var name="type" description="Certificate authority to rotate"/> --phase=init 
Updated rotation phase to "init". To check status use 'tctl status'
```

Use `tctl` to confirm that there is an active rotation in progress:

```code
$ tctl status
# Cluster  acme.cluster
# Version  (=teleport.version=)
# Host CA  initialized (mode: manual, started: Sep 20 01:44:36 UTC, ending: Sep 21 2023 07:44:36 UTC)
# User CA  rotated Sep 20 2023 01:42:54 UTC
# Jwt CA   rotated Sep 20 2023 01:42:54 UTC
# CA pin   sha256:hash
```

Check the status of connected nodes:

```code
# Check rotation status of the nodes
$ tctl get nodes --format=json | jq '.[] | {hostname: .spec.hostname, rotation: .spec.rotation.state, phase: .spec.rotation.phase}'
{
  "hostname": "terminal",
  "rotation": "in_progress",
  "phase": "init"
}
```

In this example, the node named `terminal` has updated its status to phase
`init`. This means it has downloaded a new CA public key and is ready for state
transitions.

<Admonition type="warning" title="Rotation warning">
  If some nodes are offline during rotation or have failed to update the status,
  you will lose connectivity after the transition `update_servers` -> `standby`.
  Make sure that all nodes are up to date with the transitions before
  proceeding.
</Admonition>

**Update clients**

Execute the transition from `init` to `update_clients`:

```code
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --type=<Var name="type" description="Certificate authority to rotate"/> --phase=update_clients
# Updated rotation phase to "update_clients". To check status use 'tctl status'
$ tctl status
# Cluster  acme.cluster
# Version  (=teleport.version=)
# Host CA  rotating clients (mode: manual, started: Sep 20 2023 01:44:36 UTC, ending: Sep 21 2023 07:44:36 UTC)
```

<Admonition type="note">
  Clients will temporarily lose connectivity during Proxy and Auth Server
  restarts.
</Admonition>

Verify that nodes have caught up and now see the current cluster state:

```code
$ tctl get nodes --format=json | jq '.[] | {hostname: .spec.hostname, rotation: .spec.rotation.state, phase: .spec.rotation.phase}'
{
  "hostname": "terminal",
  "rotation": "in_progress",
  "phase": "update_clients"
}
```

**Update servers**

Now that all nodes have caught up, execute the transition from `update_clients`
to `update_servers`:

```code
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --type=<Var name="type" description="Certificate authority to rotate"/> --phase=update_servers
# Updated rotation phase to "update_servers". To check status use 'tctl status'

$ tctl status
# Cluster  acme.cluster
# Version  (=teleport.version=)
# Host CA  rotating servers (mode: manual, started: Sep 20 2023 01:44:36 UTC, ending: Sep 21 2023 07:44:36 UTC)
```

<Admonition type="note">
  Usually if things go wrong, they go wrong at this transition. If you have lost
  connectivity to nodes, [roll back](#rollback) to the old certificate
  authority.
</Admonition>

Verify that nodes have caught up:

```code
$ tctl get nodes --format=json | jq '.[] | {hostname: .spec.hostname, rotation: .spec.rotation.state, phase: .spec.rotation.phase}'
{
  "hostname": "terminal",
  "rotation": "in_progress",
  "phase": "update_servers"
}
```

**Finish the rotation**

Before wrapping up, verify that you have not lost any nodes and can connect to them, for example:

```code
$ tsh ssh hello@terminal
```

<Admonition type="warning">
  This is the last stage where you have the opportunity to roll back. If you
  have lost connectivity to nodes, [roll back](#rollback) to the old certificate
  authority.
</Admonition>

```code
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --type=<Var name="type" description="Certificate authority to rotate"/> --phase=standby
```

Verify that the rotation has completed with `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl status
Cluster  acme.cluster
Version  (=teleport.version=)
Host CA  rotated Sep 20 2023 02:11:25 UTC
User CA  rotated Sep 20 2023 01:42:54 UTC
Jwt CA   rotated Sep 20 2023 01:42:54 UTC
CA pin   sha256:hash
```

Nodes should catch up and be on standby:

```code
$ tctl get nodes --format=json | jq '.[] | {hostname: .spec.hostname, rotation: .spec.rotation.state, phase: .spec.rotation.phase}'
{
  "hostname": "terminal",
  "rotation": "standby",
  "phase": "standby"
}
```

## Semi-Automatic rotation

<Admonition type="warning">
  Semi-automatic rotation executes the same steps as the manual rotation, but
  with a grace period between them. It currently does not track the states of
  the nodes and you can lose connectivity if things go wrong.
</Admonition>

You can trigger semi-automatic rotation by omitting the `--manual` and `--phase`
flags.

```code
$ tctl auth rotate --type=host
```

This will trigger a rotation process for hosts with a default grace period of
48 hours. During the grace period, certificates issued both by old and new
certificate authority work.

You can customize grace period and CA type with additional flags:

```code
# Rotate only user certificates with a grace period of 200 hours:
$ tctl auth rotate --type=user --grace-period=200h

# Rotate only host certificates with a grace period of 8 hours:
$ tctl auth rotate --type=host --grace-period=8h
```

The rotation takes time, especially for hosts, because each node in a cluster
needs to be notified that a rotation is taking place and request a new
certificate for itself before the grace period ends.

During semi-automatic rotations, Teleport will attempt to divide the grace
period so that it spends an equal amount of time in each phase before
transitioning to the next phase. This means that using a shorter grace period
will result in faster state transitions.

<Notice type="warning">
  Be careful when choosing a grace period when rotating host certificates.
</Notice>

The grace period needs to be long enough for all nodes in a cluster to request a
new certificate. If some nodes go offline during the rotation and come back only
after the grace period has ended, they will be forced to leave the cluster, i.e.
users will no longer be allowed to SSH into them.

Check the cluster status:

```code
$ tctl status
Cluster  acme.cluster
Version  (=teleport.version=)
Host CA  initialized (mode: manual, started: Sep 20 2023 01:44:36 UTC, ending: Sep 21 2023 07:44:36 UTC)
```

Check the status of individual nodes:

```code
# Check rotation status of the nodes
$ tctl get nodes --format=json | jq '.[] | {hostname: .spec.hostname, rotation: .spec.rotation.state, phase: .spec.rotation.phase}'
{
  "hostname": "terminal",
  "rotation": "in_progress",
  "phase": "init"
}
```

The node named `terminal` has updated its status to phase `init`. This means it
has downloaded a new CA public key and is ready for state transitions.

## Rollback

Rollback must be performed before the rotation enters `standby` state.

First, enter the rollback phase with a manual phase transition:

```code
$ tctl auth rotate --phase=rollback --type=<Var name="type" description="Certificate authority to rotate"/> --manual
# Updated rotation phase to "rollback". To check status use 'tctl status'
```

Make sure that any nodes which have already updated have caught up and entered
the `rollback` phase.

```code
# Check rotation status of the nodes
$ tctl get nodes --format=json | jq '.[] | {hostname: .spec.hostname, rotation: .spec.rotation.state, phase: .spec.rotation.phase}'
{
  "hostname": "terminal",
  "rotation": "in_progress",
  "phase": "rollback"
}
```

If connectivity to any of the nodes was lost during the rotation, this is likely
because they were still using the old cert authority. Connectivity to these
nodes should be restored when the rollback completes and the old certificate
authority is made active.

## Further reading

How the [Teleport Certificate Authority](../../architecture/authentication.mdx) works.
