docs/pages/management/operations/enroll-agent-into-automatic-updates.mdx, before:

---
title: Enroll an agent into automatic updates (Preview)
description: How to enroll an agent into automatic updates
---

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="13.0"
>
  Automatic agent update is available starting from Teleport `13.0`.
</Details>
<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["cloud"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="13.0"
>
  Automatic agent update is available starting from Teleport `13.0`.
</Details>

Teleport supports automatic agent updates for
systemd-based Linux distributions using `apt` or `yum` package managers,
and Kubernetes clusters. The [automatic updates architecture 
page](../../architecture/agent-update-management.mdx) describes how agent
updating works.

This guide explains how to enroll an existing Teleport agent into automatic
updates.

## Requirements

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Self-hosted" scope="enterprise">
- A Teleport Enterprise agent, either:
  - started via systemd on a distribution using the `apt` or `yum` package managers
  - deployed with the `teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart
- automatic update infrastructure set up. For Self-Hosted users this means you
  already followed [this guide](./self-hosted-automatic-agent-updates.mdx) and
  know your version server URL and release channel
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Teleport Cloud" scope="cloud">
- A Teleport Enterprise agent, either:
  - started via systemd on a distribution using the `apt` or `yum` package managers
  - deployed with the `teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart
- as a Teleport Cloud user, you must check if your Could Tenant is enrolled
  into automatic updates.
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Enroll instructions

<Details
scope={["cloud"]}
opened
title="Finding Agents in Teleport Enterprise Cloud">

If you have a Teleport Enterprise Cloud account, you can find agents that need to be enrolled using `tctl inventory ls` like so:

```code
$ tctl inventory ls --upgrader=none
Server ID                            Hostname          Services Version Upgrader
------------------------------------ ----------------- -------- ------- --------
4fb2d97d-884a-4566-b477-c805d477df09 agent.example.com Node     v1.2.3  none
...
```

If you have a lot of agents on different versions and want to prioritize enrolling
your oldest agents, you can limit your search using the `--older-than` filter:

```code
$ tctl inventory ls --upgrader=none --older-than=v1.2.3
Server ID                            Hostname        Services Version Upgrader
------------------------------------ --------------- -------- ------- --------
1e6578b6-9530-448e-8013-d32641324abb old.example.com Node     v1.1.1  none
...
```

</Details>

<Tabs dropdownView dropdownCaption="Cluster Type">
<TabItem label="Self-hosted" scope="enterprise">
<Tabs>
<TabItem label="systemd" scope="enterprise">

### Step 1/3. Ensure the Teleport repository is added and Teleport Enterprise is installed

To check if teleport was installed using the package manager:
```code
$ sudo apt list teleport-ent
# or
$ sudo yum list teleport-ent
```

If the `teleport-ent` package is not found, add the teleport repository and reinstall teleport:

(!docs/pages/includes/cloud/install-linux-cloud.mdx!)

### Step 2/3. Configure the updater

Create the upgrade configuration directory:
```code
$ sudo mkdir -p /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/
```

If you changed the agent user to run as non-root, create
`/etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule` and grant ownership to your Teleport user.
Else, you can skip this step:

```code
$ sudo touch /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule
$ sudo chown <Var name="your-teleport-user" /> /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule
```

Configure the updater to connect to your custom version server and subscribe
to the right release channel:

```code
$ echo <Var name="version-server-url/path" />/<Var name="release-channel" /> | sudo tee /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/endpoint
```

<Admonition type="tip" title="Note">
Make sure not to include `https://` as a prefix to the server address.
</Admonition>

### Step 3/3. Verify updater is properly configured

Verify that the updater can see your version endpoint by checking for updates:
```code
$ sudo teleport-upgrade dry-run
```

You should see one of the following messages, depending on the target version
you are currently serving:

```text
no upgrades available (1.2.3 == 1.2.3)
an upgrade is available (1.2.3 -> 2.3.4)
```

<Admonition type="note">
`teleport-upgrade` may complain about not having a valid upgrade schedule.
This is expected immediately after install as the maintenance schedule might
not be exported yet.
</Admonition>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="teleport-kube-agent chart" scope="enterprise">

Confirm you are using the Teleport Enterprise image. The `enterprise` value setting
should have been set to `true` for the Helm chart installation.

Add the following chart values to your existing agent `values.yaml`:

```yaml
updater:
  enabled: true
  versionServer: https://<version-server-domain-and-path>
  releaseChannel: <release-channel>
```

Update the Helm chart release with the new values by running `helm upgrade`.

You can validate the updater is running properly by checking if its pod is ready:

```code
$ kubectl get pods
NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
my-agent-0                         1/1     Running   0          14m
my-agent-1                         1/1     Running   0          14m
my-agent-2                         1/1     Running   0          14m
my-agent-updater-d9f97f5dd-v57g9   1/1     Running   0          16m
```

And by consulting its logs:

```code
$ kubectl logs <your-agent-release>-updater
2023-04-28T13:13:30Z	INFO	StatefulSet is already up-to-date, not updating.	{"controller": "statefulset", "controllerGroup": "apps", "controllerKind": "StatefulSet", "StatefulSet": {"name":"my-agent","namespace":"agent"}, "namespace": "agent", "name": "my-agent", "reconcileID": "10419f20-a4c9-45d4-a16f-406866b7fc05", "namespacedname": "agent/my-agent", "kind": "StatefulSet", "err": "no new version (current: \"v12.2.3\", next: \"v12.2.3\")"}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Teleport Cloud" scope="cloud">
<Tabs>
<TabItem label="systemd" scope="cloud">


### Step 1/3. Ensure the Teleport repository is added and Teleport Enterprise is installed

To check if teleport was installed using the package manager:
```code
$ sudo apt list teleport-ent
# or
$ sudo yum list teleport-ent
```

If the `teleport-ent` package is not found, add the teleport repository and reinstall teleport:

(!docs/pages/includes/cloud/install-linux-cloud.mdx!)

### Step 2/3. Configure the updater

If you changed the agent user to run as non-root, create
`/etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule` and grant ownership to your Teleport user.
Else, you can skip this step:

```code
$ sudo mkdir -p /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/
$ sudo touch /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule
$ sudo chown <your-teleport-user> /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule
```

### Step 3/3. Verify updater is properly configured

Verify that the updater can see your version endpoint by checking for updates:
```code
$ sudo teleport-upgrade dry-run
```

You should see one of the following messages, depending on the target version
you are currently serving:

```text
no upgrades available (1.2.3 == 1.2.3)
an upgrade is available (1.2.3 -> 2.3.4)
```

<Admonition type="note">
`teleport-upgrade` may complain about not having a valid upgrade schedule.
This is expected immediately after install as the maintenance schedule might
not be exported yet.
</Admonition>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="teleport-kube-agent chart" scope="cloud">

Confirm you are using the Teleport Enterprise image. The `enterprise` value setting
should have been set to `true` for the Helm chart installation.

Add the following chart values to your existing agent `values.yaml`:

```yaml
updater:
  enabled: true
```

Update the Helm chart release with the new values by running `helm upgrade`.

You can validate the updater is running properly by checking if its pod is ready:

```code
$ kubectl get pods
NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
my-agent-0                         1/1     Running   0          14m
my-agent-1                         1/1     Running   0          14m
my-agent-2                         1/1     Running   0          14m
my-agent-updater-d9f97f5dd-v57g9   1/1     Running   0          16m
```

And by consulting its logs:

```code
$ kubectl logs <your-agent-release>-updater
2023-04-28T13:13:30Z	INFO	StatefulSet is already up-to-date, not updating.	{"controller": "statefulset", "controllerGroup": "apps", "controllerKind": "StatefulSet", "StatefulSet": {"name":"my-agent","namespace":"agent"}, "namespace": "agent", "name": "my-agent", "reconcileID": "10419f20-a4c9-45d4-a16f-406866b7fc05", "namespacedname": "agent/my-agent", "kind": "StatefulSet", "err": "no new version (current: \"v12.2.3\", next: \"v12.2.3\")"}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Troubleshooting
  
### Manually running an update

If the agent is not automatically updated, you can:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="systemd">

Invoke manually the updater and look at its logs.

```code
$ sudo teleport-upgrade run
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="teleport-kube-agent chart">

Consult the `teleport-kube-agent-updater` logs:

```code
$ kubectl logs <your-agent-release>-updater
```

<Admonition type="note">
The Kubernetes updater responds to events, or is woken up every 30 minutes.
If you don't want to wait until the next reconciliation, you can trigger an
event. Any deployment update will send an event, so the updater can be
triggered by annotating the resource:

```code
kubectl annotate statefulset/<your-agent-release> 'debug.teleport.dev/trigger-event=1'
```
</Admonition>
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Suspending automatic updates

You can suspend automatic updates for an agent:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="systemd">

Disable the systemd timer:

```code
$ sudo systemctl disable --now teleport-upgrade.timer
```
  
To enable and start the systemd timer after suspending:

```code
$ sudo systemctl enable --now teleport-upgrade.timer
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="teleport-kube-agent chart">
Annotate the agent deployment with `teleport.dev/skipreconcile: "true"`.
Either by setting the `annotations.deployment` value in Helm, or by patching
the deployment directly with `kubectl`.
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Use apt-cache policy or yum repolist

docs/pages/management/operations/enroll-agent-into-automatic-updates.mdx, after:

---
title: Enroll an agent into automatic updates (Preview)
description: How to enroll an agent into automatic updates
---

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="13.0"
>
  Automatic agent update is available starting from Teleport `13.0`.
</Details>
<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["cloud"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="13.0"
>
  Automatic agent update is available starting from Teleport `13.0`.
</Details>

Teleport supports automatic agent updates for
systemd-based Linux distributions using `apt` or `yum` package managers,
and Kubernetes clusters. The [automatic updates architecture 
page](../../architecture/agent-update-management.mdx) describes how agent
updating works.

This guide explains how to enroll an existing Teleport agent into automatic
updates.

## Requirements

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Self-hosted" scope="enterprise">
- A Teleport Enterprise agent, either:
  - started via systemd on a distribution using the `apt` or `yum` package managers
  - deployed with the `teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart
- automatic update infrastructure set up. For Self-Hosted users this means you
  already followed [this guide](./self-hosted-automatic-agent-updates.mdx) and
  know your version server URL and release channel
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Teleport Cloud" scope="cloud">
- A Teleport Enterprise agent, either:
  - started via systemd on a distribution using the `apt` or `yum` package managers
  - deployed with the `teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart
- as a Teleport Cloud user, you must check if your Could Tenant is enrolled
  into automatic updates.
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Enroll instructions

<Details
scope={["cloud"]}
opened
title="Finding Agents in Teleport Enterprise Cloud">

If you have a Teleport Enterprise Cloud account, you can find agents that need to be enrolled using `tctl inventory ls` like so:

```code
$ tctl inventory ls --upgrader=none
Server ID                            Hostname          Services Version Upgrader
------------------------------------ ----------------- -------- ------- --------
4fb2d97d-884a-4566-b477-c805d477df09 agent.example.com Node     v1.2.3  none
...
```

If you have a lot of agents on different versions and want to prioritize enrolling
your oldest agents, you can limit your search using the `--older-than` filter:

```code
$ tctl inventory ls --upgrader=none --older-than=v1.2.3
Server ID                            Hostname        Services Version Upgrader
------------------------------------ --------------- -------- ------- --------
1e6578b6-9530-448e-8013-d32641324abb old.example.com Node     v1.1.1  none
...
```

</Details>

<Tabs dropdownView dropdownCaption="Cluster Type">
<TabItem label="Self-hosted" scope="enterprise">
<Tabs>
<TabItem label="systemd" scope="enterprise">

### Step 1/3. Ensure the Teleport repository is added and Teleport Enterprise is installed

To check if Teleport was installed using the package manager:
```code
$ apt-cache policy | grep teleport
# or
$ yum repolist | grep teleport
```

If the `teleport-ent` package is not found, add the appropriate repository and reinstall Teleport:

(!docs/pages/includes/cloud/install-linux-cloud.mdx!)

### Step 2/3. Configure the updater

Create the upgrade configuration directory:
```code
$ sudo mkdir -p /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/
```

If you changed the agent user to run as non-root, create
`/etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule` and grant ownership to your Teleport user.
Else, you can skip this step:

```code
$ sudo touch /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule
$ sudo chown <Var name="your-teleport-user" /> /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule
```

Configure the updater to connect to your custom version server and subscribe
to the right release channel:

```code
$ echo <Var name="version-server-url/path" />/<Var name="release-channel" /> | sudo tee /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/endpoint
```

<Admonition type="tip" title="Note">
Make sure not to include `https://` as a prefix to the server address.
</Admonition>

### Step 3/3. Verify updater is properly configured

Verify that the updater can see your version endpoint by checking for updates:
```code
$ sudo teleport-upgrade dry-run
```

You should see one of the following messages, depending on the target version
you are currently serving:

```text
no upgrades available (1.2.3 == 1.2.3)
an upgrade is available (1.2.3 -> 2.3.4)
```

<Admonition type="note">
`teleport-upgrade` may complain about not having a valid upgrade schedule.
This is expected immediately after install as the maintenance schedule might
not be exported yet.
</Admonition>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="teleport-kube-agent chart" scope="enterprise">

Confirm you are using the Teleport Enterprise image. The `enterprise` value setting
should have been set to `true` for the Helm chart installation.

Add the following chart values to your existing agent `values.yaml`:

```yaml
updater:
  enabled: true
  versionServer: https://<version-server-domain-and-path>
  releaseChannel: <release-channel>
```

Update the Helm chart release with the new values by running `helm upgrade`.

You can validate the updater is running properly by checking if its pod is ready:

```code
$ kubectl get pods
NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
my-agent-0                         1/1     Running   0          14m
my-agent-1                         1/1     Running   0          14m
my-agent-2                         1/1     Running   0          14m
my-agent-updater-d9f97f5dd-v57g9   1/1     Running   0          16m
```

And by consulting its logs:

```code
$ kubectl logs <your-agent-release>-updater
2023-04-28T13:13:30Z	INFO	StatefulSet is already up-to-date, not updating.	{"controller": "statefulset", "controllerGroup": "apps", "controllerKind": "StatefulSet", "StatefulSet": {"name":"my-agent","namespace":"agent"}, "namespace": "agent", "name": "my-agent", "reconcileID": "10419f20-a4c9-45d4-a16f-406866b7fc05", "namespacedname": "agent/my-agent", "kind": "StatefulSet", "err": "no new version (current: \"v12.2.3\", next: \"v12.2.3\")"}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Teleport Cloud" scope="cloud">
<Tabs>
<TabItem label="systemd" scope="cloud">


### Step 1/3. Ensure the Teleport repository is added and Teleport Enterprise is installed

To check if Teleport was installed using the package manager:
```code
$ apt-cache policy | grep teleport
# or
$ yum repolist | grep teleport
```

If the `teleport-ent` package is not found, add the appropriate repository and reinstall Teleport:

(!docs/pages/includes/cloud/install-linux-cloud.mdx!)

### Step 2/3. Configure the updater

If you changed the agent user to run as non-root, create
`/etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule` and grant ownership to your Teleport user.
Else, you can skip this step:

```code
$ sudo mkdir -p /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/
$ sudo touch /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule
$ sudo chown <your-teleport-user> /etc/teleport-upgrade.d/schedule
```

### Step 3/3. Verify updater is properly configured

Verify that the updater can see your version endpoint by checking for updates:
```code
$ sudo teleport-upgrade dry-run
```

You should see one of the following messages, depending on the target version
you are currently serving:

```text
no upgrades available (1.2.3 == 1.2.3)
an upgrade is available (1.2.3 -> 2.3.4)
```

<Admonition type="note">
`teleport-upgrade` may complain about not having a valid upgrade schedule.
This is expected immediately after install as the maintenance schedule might
not be exported yet.
</Admonition>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="teleport-kube-agent chart" scope="cloud">

Confirm you are using the Teleport Enterprise image. The `enterprise` value setting
should have been set to `true` for the Helm chart installation.

Add the following chart values to your existing agent `values.yaml`:

```yaml
updater:
  enabled: true
```

Update the Helm chart release with the new values by running `helm upgrade`.

You can validate the updater is running properly by checking if its pod is ready:

```code
$ kubectl get pods
NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
my-agent-0                         1/1     Running   0          14m
my-agent-1                         1/1     Running   0          14m
my-agent-2                         1/1     Running   0          14m
my-agent-updater-d9f97f5dd-v57g9   1/1     Running   0          16m
```

And by consulting its logs:

```code
$ kubectl logs <your-agent-release>-updater
2023-04-28T13:13:30Z	INFO	StatefulSet is already up-to-date, not updating.	{"controller": "statefulset", "controllerGroup": "apps", "controllerKind": "StatefulSet", "StatefulSet": {"name":"my-agent","namespace":"agent"}, "namespace": "agent", "name": "my-agent", "reconcileID": "10419f20-a4c9-45d4-a16f-406866b7fc05", "namespacedname": "agent/my-agent", "kind": "StatefulSet", "err": "no new version (current: \"v12.2.3\", next: \"v12.2.3\")"}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Troubleshooting
  
### Manually running an update

If the agent is not automatically updated, you can:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="systemd">

Invoke manually the updater and look at its logs.

```code
$ sudo teleport-upgrade run
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="teleport-kube-agent chart">

Consult the `teleport-kube-agent-updater` logs:

```code
$ kubectl logs <your-agent-release>-updater
```

<Admonition type="note">
The Kubernetes updater responds to events, or is woken up every 30 minutes.
If you don't want to wait until the next reconciliation, you can trigger an
event. Any deployment update will send an event, so the updater can be
triggered by annotating the resource:

```code
kubectl annotate statefulset/<your-agent-release> 'debug.teleport.dev/trigger-event=1'
```
</Admonition>
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Suspending automatic updates

You can suspend automatic updates for an agent:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="systemd">

Disable the systemd timer:

```code
$ sudo systemctl disable --now teleport-upgrade.timer
```
  
To enable and start the systemd timer after suspending:

```code
$ sudo systemctl enable --now teleport-upgrade.timer
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="teleport-kube-agent chart">
Annotate the agent deployment with `teleport.dev/skipreconcile: "true"`.
Either by setting the `annotations.deployment` value in Helm, or by patching
the deployment directly with `kubectl`.
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
