docs/pages/management/operations/upgrading.mdx, before:

---
title: Upgrading a Teleport Cluster
description: This guide shows you the correct order in which to upgrade Teleport components when rolling out a new Teleport release in your cluster.
---

In this guide, we will show you how to upgrade all of the components in your
Teleport cluster.

(!docs/pages/includes/cloud/call-to-action.mdx!)

## Production releases

<Notice type="warning">
  Avoid running pre-releases (release candidates) in production environments.
</Notice>

The Teleport development team uses [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/),
which makes it easy to tell if a specific version is recommended for production
use.

## Component compatibility

<Details
scope={["cloud"]}
scopeOnly
opened
title="Auth Service and Proxy Service versions">

In Teleport Cloud, we manage the Auth and Proxy Services for you. You can
determine the current version of these services by running the following
command, where `mytenant` is the name of your Teleport Cloud tenant:

```code
$ curl -s https://mytenant.teleport.sh/webapi/ping | jq '.server_version'
```

Read the following rules to ensure that your Teleport resource services (e.g.,
the SSH Service and Database Service) are compatible with the Teleport Auth and
Proxy Services. You should check the version of the Auth and Proxy Services
regularly to make sure that your Teleport resource services are compatible.

</Details>

(!docs/pages/includes/compatibility.mdx!)

## Backup

Back up before upgrading. We have more instructions in [Backing up Teleport](./backup-restore.mdx).

## Upgrade Sequence

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise", "oss"]} label="Self-Hosted">
When upgrading a single Teleport cluster:

<Notice type="tip">
Teleport requires upgrading the Teleport Cluster from one major version to another in sequence.
That means if you are currently on version 8.X you must upgrade to the latest version 9 before
going to version 10. To upgrade in sequence repeat upgrading the Teleport Cluster, confirming
a healthy start before continuing to the next version.
</Notice>

1. **Upgrade the Auth Service first to the next Major version**. The Auth Service keeps the cluster state
   and, if there are data format changes introduced in the new version, will
   perform necessary migrations.  Confirm the start of the Auth Service and a healthy state.
2. Upgrade Proxy Service instances to the same version number. These are stateless and can be upgraded in
   any sequence or at the same time.
3. Finally, upgrade your Teleport resource services in any sequence or at the
   same time to the same version number.
4. If you are upgrading more then one version number then repeat Step 1 to 3 until you have reached your target
   major version.

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Warning"
>
  If several Auth Service instances are running in the High Availability configuration
  (for example, in an AWS Auto Scaling group), you must shrink the group to
  **just one Auth Service** before performing an upgrade.

While Teleport will attempt to perform any necessary migrations, we recommend users create a backup of their backend before upgrading the Auth Server as a
precaution. This allows for a safe rollback in case the migration itself fails.

</Admonition>

When upgrading multiple clusters:

1. First, upgrade the root cluster, i.e. the one that other clusters trust.
2. Upgrade the Trusted Clusters.

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud","team"]} label="Cloud-Hosted">

The Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service are upgraded automatically. When
upgrading resource services, you may upgrade in any sequence or at the same
time.

When upgrading multiple clusters:

1. First, upgrade the root cluster, i.e. the one that other clusters trust.
2. Upgrade the Trusted Clusters.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Further reading

If you would like to learn how to upgrade a single `teleport` binary, read
[Upgrade the Teleport Binary](../admin/upgrading-the-teleport-binary.mdx).

Commit message:

Fix lint warning, make these unordered lists (#29086)
* Fix lint warning, make these unordered lists

* Change numbered steps, make a couple of edits

* Update the versions mentioned in the upgrade sequence

* Changed to bullets because these aren't discrete steps in the traditional sense

* Remove extra lines

* Fix lint issue

docs/pages/management/operations/upgrading.mdx, after:

---
title: Upgrading a Teleport Cluster
description: This guide shows you the correct order in which to upgrade Teleport components when rolling out a new Teleport release in your cluster.
---

This guide demonstrates how to upgrade all of the components in your Teleport cluster.

(!docs/pages/includes/cloud/call-to-action.mdx!)

## Production releases

<Notice type="warning">
  Avoid running pre-releases (release candidates) in production environments.
</Notice>

The Teleport development team uses [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/),
which makes it easy to tell if a specific version is recommended for production
use.

## Component compatibility

<Details
scope={["cloud"]}
scopeOnly
opened
title="Auth Service and Proxy Service versions">

In Teleport Cloud, we manage the Auth and Proxy Services for you. You can
determine the current version of these services by running the following
command, where `mytenant` is the name of your Teleport Team or Teleport 
Enterprise Cloud tenant:

```code
$ curl -s https://mytenant.teleport.sh/webapi/ping | jq '.server_version'
```

Read the following rules to ensure that your Teleport resource services (for example,
the SSH Service and Database Service) are compatible with the Teleport Auth and
Proxy Services. You should check the version of the Auth and Proxy Services
regularly to make sure that your Teleport resource services are compatible.

</Details>

(!docs/pages/includes/compatibility.mdx!)

## Backup

Back up before upgrading. We have more instructions in [Backing up Teleport](./backup-restore.mdx).

## Upgrade sequence

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise", "oss"]} label="Self-Hosted">

Teleport requires upgrading the Teleport Cluster from one major version to another in sequence.
If you are currently on version 11.x, you must upgrade to the latest version 12.x before
going to version 13.x. To upgrade in sequence, upgrade the Teleport cluster and confirm
a healthy start before continuing to the next version.

When upgrading a single Teleport cluster:

- Upgrade the **Auth Service** to the next **major version first**. 
   The Auth Service keeps the cluster state. If there are data format 
   changes introduced in the new version, the Auth Service performs the necessary migrations.  
   After the upgrade, start the Auth Service and CONFIRM that it's in a healthy state before
   continuing.
- Upgrade Proxy Service instances to the same version number as the Auth Service. 
   Proxy Service instances are stateless and can be upgraded in any sequence or at the same time.
- Upgrade your Teleport resource services to the same version number as the Auth Service.
   You can upgrade resource agents in any sequence or at the same time.
   
If you are upgrading more then one version number, repeat these steps until 
you reach your target major version number.

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Warning"
>
  If several Auth Service instances are running in the High Availability configuration
  (for example, in an AWS Auto Scaling group), you must shrink the group to
  **just one Auth Service** before performing an upgrade.

While Teleport will attempt to perform any necessary migrations, we recommend users create a backup of their backend before upgrading the Auth Server as a
precaution. This allows for a safe rollback in case the migration itself fails.

</Admonition>

When upgrading multiple clusters:

- Upgrade the root cluster—that is, the cluster that other clusters trust—first.
- Verify the upgrade was successful.
- Upgrade the Trusted Clusters.

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud","team"]} label="Cloud-Hosted">

The Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service are upgraded automatically. When
upgrading resource services, you may upgrade in any sequence or at the same
time.

When upgrading multiple clusters:

- Upgrade the root cluster—that is, the cluster that other clusters trust—first.
- Verify the upgrade was successful.
- Upgrade the Trusted Clusters.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Further reading

If you would like to learn how to upgrade a single `teleport` binary, read
[Upgrade the Teleport Binary](../admin/upgrading-the-teleport-binary.mdx).
