docs/pages/includes/device-trust/prereqs.mdx, before:

- To enroll a macOS device, you need:
  - A signed and notarized `tsh` binary.
    [Download the macOS tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#macos).
- To enroll a Windows device, you need:
  - A device with TPM 2.0.
  - A user with administrator privileges. This is only required during enrollment.
  - The `tsh` client. [Download the Windows tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#windows-tsh-and-tctl-clients-only).
- To enroll a Linux device, you need:
  - A device with TPM 2.0.
  - A user with permissions to use the /dev/tpmrm0 device (typically done by
    assigning the `tss` group to the user).
  - `tsh` v15.0.0 or newer. [Install tsh for Linux](../../installation.mdx#linux).
- To authenticate a Web UI session you need [Teleport Connect](
  ../../connect-your-client/teleport-connect.mdx#installation--upgrade)
- Correct end-user IP propagation to your Teleport deployment:
  [X-Forwarded-For header](../../reference/config.mdx#proxy-service) (L7 load
  balancer) or [PROXY protocol](
  ../../admin-guides/management/security/proxy-protocol.mdx) (L4 load balancer)

Commit message:

docs: Instruct WSL device trust users to use tsh.exe (#51551) (#51599)

docs/pages/includes/device-trust/prereqs.mdx, after:

- To enroll a macOS device, you need:
  - A signed and notarized `tsh` binary.
    [Download the macOS tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#macos).
- To enroll a Windows device, you need:
  - A device with TPM 2.0.
  - A user with administrator privileges. This is only required during enrollment.
  - The `tsh` client. [Download the Windows tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#windows-tsh-and-tctl-clients-only).
- To enroll a Linux device, you need:
  - A device with TPM 2.0.
  - A user with permissions to use the /dev/tpmrm0 device (typically done by
    assigning the `tss` group to the user).
  - The `tsh` client. [Install tsh for Linux](../../installation.mdx#linux).

    WSL users should use the Windows binary instead.
    [Download the Windows tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#windows-tsh-and-tctl-clients-only).

- To authenticate a Web UI session you need [Teleport Connect](
  ../../connect-your-client/teleport-connect.mdx#installation--upgrade)
- Correct end-user IP propagation to your Teleport deployment:
  [X-Forwarded-For header](../../reference/config.mdx#proxy-service) (L7 load
  balancer) or [PROXY protocol](
  ../../admin-guides/management/security/proxy-protocol.mdx) (L4 load balancer)
