docs/pages/database-access/troubleshooting.mdx, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting Database Access
description: Common issues and resolutions for Teleport's Database Access
---

Common issues and resolution steps.

## Connection attempts fail

### Certificate expired or is not yet valid

Attempts to connect to the database fail, and the error message returned is
similar to: **"Database service could not validate database’s certificate:
certificate expired."**.

**Solution:** Renew the database certificate.

The Teleport Database Service uses a Teleport-issued certificate to authenticate
with the Database. This error happens when Teleport cannot authenticate, often
due to expired certificates.

The command used to generate a new certificate is `tctl auth sign`. For example,
to create a certificate for PostgreSQL, the command looks like this:
```bash
# Export Teleport's certificate authority and a generate certificate/key pair
# for host db.example.com with a 1-year validity period.

$ tctl auth sign --format=db --host=db.example.com --out=server --ttl=2190h
```

Each database uses a different format. You can check your database guide for more
details and examples:

- [PostgreSQL](./guides/postgres-self-hosted.mdx#step-25-create-a-certificatekey-pair)
- [MySQL/MariaDB](./guides/mysql-self-hosted.mdx#step-24-create-a-certificatekey-pair)
- [MongoDB](./guides/mongodb-self-hosted.mdx#set-up-mutual-tls)
- [CockroachDB](./guides/cockroachdb-self-hosted.mdx#set-up-mutual-tls)
- [Redis](./guides/redis.mdx#step-45-set-up-mutual-tls)
- [Redis Cluster](./guides/redis-cluster.mdx#step-46-set-up-mutual-tls)

After the new certificate is issued, update your database to make it take effect.

## Access to db denied

Attempts to connect to the database fail with an error message
similar to: **"access to db denied"**.

**Solution:** Configure the database instance and Teleport role-based access control (RBAC) to allow the user 
access.

Check that the database user and database name (aka schema) you are trying to access via `tsh` exist in the database instance.
When referring to "database name" or `db_names`, this is not the same as the `name` field in the `db_service` section of your Database Service configuration;
this is referring to database names or schemas within a particular database instance.

Once your database instance is configured, Teleport RBAC must be configured to allow access.
Assign the Teleport user a role that **allows** `db_users`, `db_names`, and `db_labels` matching the 
database user, database name, and Teleport static or dynamic labels for the database. Additionally, check that 
the user does not have role(s) that **deny** the corresponding `db_users`, `db_names`, or `db_labels`.

<Admonition type="warning">
  Database names are only enforced for PostgreSQL and MongoDB databases.
  When connecting to a PostgreSQL or MongoDB instance, be sure to specify `--db-name`:
  ```sh
  $ tsh db connect --db-user=exampleuser --db-name=exampledb
  ```
</Admonition>

For example, the following `user` and `role` resources allow the Teleport user `alice@example.com` to
access any database name or database user
within a production database except for the `admin` database user or
the `postgres` database name:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: db-developer
  description: "Example role that grants restricted access to production databases"
spec:
  allow:
    db_labels:
      environment: ["prod"] # for this example, assume production databases have this label in your Teleport cluster
    db_users: ["{{internal.db_users}}"]
    db_names: ["{{internal.db_names}}"]
  deny:
    db_users: ["admin"]
    db_names: ["postgres"]
---
kind: user
metadata:
  name: alice@example.com
spec:
  roles: ["db-developer"]
  traits:
    db_users: ["*"]
    db_names: ["*"]
```

Now suppose we want to grant Alice more permissive access.
To keep this example simple, let's just assign Alice a different role.
Update Alice's roles to include just the default Teleport role `access`, which allows access to all resources.
We can update a user's roles from the command-line by using either `tctl users update` or `tctl create`:
<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="tctl users update">
  ```sh
  $ tctl users update alice@example.com --set-roles=access
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="tctl create">
    First save Alice's user resource to a local file:
    ```sh
    $ tctl get users/alice@example.com > alice.yaml
    ```

    Then modify `alice.yaml` to assign the `access` role:
    ```yaml
    kind: user
    metadata:
      name: alice@example.com
    spec:
      roles: ["access"]
      traits:
        db_users: ["*"]
        db_names: ["*"]
    ```

    Finally, use `tctl create --force` to update the user
    (`--force` is required to overwrite an already existing resource).
    ```sh
    $ tctl create --force alice.yaml
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Now Alice can connect to any database in the Teleport cluster using any database user or database name.

This example is intentionally simple; we could have configured Alice's permissions using more fine-grained control.
For more detailed information about database access controls and how to restrict
access see the [RBAC](../database-access/rbac.mdx) documentation.

## Connection to MySQL database results in "Unknown system variable 'query_cache_size'" error

When TLS Routing is disable by default, the Teleport Proxy Service returns `8.0.0-Teleport` as the MySQL server version. In some cases, like connecting with a GUI Client, this can result in obtaining an `Unknown system variable 'query_cache_size'` error that indicates that MySQL capabilities were not properly negotiated between the MySQL client and server.

One way to solve this issue is to [use the TLS Routing
feature](../management/operations/tls-routing.mdx), where the Teleport Proxy
Service propagates the correct MySQL server version via TLS Routing extensions.

If migration to TLS Routing is not possible, another way to bypass this error is
to use the [Teleport local proxy
command](../connect-your-client/gui-clients.mdx#get-connection-information),
which allows you to establish a TLS Routing connection to the Teleport Proxy
Service even if TLS Routing was not enabled on the Teleport cluster.

```yaml
proxy_service:
  mysql_server_version: "8.0.4"
```

Commit message:

[v13] Docs: clarify the value of 'host' key where needed (#28800)
* clarify the value of 'host' key where needed

* Respond to @ptgott's feedback

docs/pages/database-access/troubleshooting.mdx, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting Database Access
description: Common issues and resolutions for Teleport's Database Access
---

Common issues and resolution steps.

## Connection attempts fail

### Certificate expired or is not yet valid

Attempts to connect to the database fail, and the error message returned is
similar to: **"Database service could not validate database’s certificate:
certificate expired."**.

**Solution:** Renew the database certificate.

The Teleport Database Service uses a Teleport-issued certificate to authenticate
with the Database. This error happens when Teleport cannot authenticate, often
due to expired certificates.

The command used to generate a new certificate is `tctl auth sign`. For example,
to create a certificate for PostgreSQL, the command looks like this:

```bash
# Export Teleport's certificate authority and a generate certificate/key pair
# for host db.example.com with a 1-year validity period.

$ tctl auth sign --format=db --host=db.example.com --out=server --ttl=2190h
```

In this example, `db.example.com` is the hostname where the Teleport Database
Service can reach the PostgreSQL server.

Each database uses a different format. You can check your database guide for more
details and examples:

- [PostgreSQL](./guides/postgres-self-hosted.mdx#step-25-create-a-certificatekey-pair)
- [MySQL/MariaDB](./guides/mysql-self-hosted.mdx#step-24-create-a-certificatekey-pair)
- [MongoDB](./guides/mongodb-self-hosted.mdx#set-up-mutual-tls)
- [CockroachDB](./guides/cockroachdb-self-hosted.mdx#set-up-mutual-tls)
- [Redis](./guides/redis.mdx#step-45-set-up-mutual-tls)
- [Redis Cluster](./guides/redis-cluster.mdx#step-46-set-up-mutual-tls)

After the new certificate is issued, update your database to make it take effect.

## Access to db denied

Attempts to connect to the database fail with an error message
similar to: **"access to db denied"**.

**Solution:** Configure the database instance and Teleport role-based access control (RBAC) to allow the user 
access.

Check that the database user and database name (aka schema) you are trying to access via `tsh` exist in the database instance.
When referring to "database name" or `db_names`, this is not the same as the `name` field in the `db_service` section of your Database Service configuration;
this is referring to database names or schemas within a particular database instance.

Once your database instance is configured, Teleport RBAC must be configured to allow access.
Assign the Teleport user a role that **allows** `db_users`, `db_names`, and `db_labels` matching the 
database user, database name, and Teleport static or dynamic labels for the database. Additionally, check that 
the user does not have role(s) that **deny** the corresponding `db_users`, `db_names`, or `db_labels`.

<Admonition type="warning">
  Database names are only enforced for PostgreSQL and MongoDB databases.
  When connecting to a PostgreSQL or MongoDB instance, be sure to specify `--db-name`:
  ```sh
  $ tsh db connect --db-user=exampleuser --db-name=exampledb
  ```
</Admonition>

For example, the following `user` and `role` resources allow the Teleport user `alice@example.com` to
access any database name or database user
within a production database except for the `admin` database user or
the `postgres` database name:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: db-developer
  description: "Example role that grants restricted access to production databases"
spec:
  allow:
    db_labels:
      environment: ["prod"] # for this example, assume production databases have this label in your Teleport cluster
    db_users: ["{{internal.db_users}}"]
    db_names: ["{{internal.db_names}}"]
  deny:
    db_users: ["admin"]
    db_names: ["postgres"]
---
kind: user
metadata:
  name: alice@example.com
spec:
  roles: ["db-developer"]
  traits:
    db_users: ["*"]
    db_names: ["*"]
```

Now suppose we want to grant Alice more permissive access.
To keep this example simple, let's just assign Alice a different role.
Update Alice's roles to include just the default Teleport role `access`, which allows access to all resources.
We can update a user's roles from the command-line by using either `tctl users update` or `tctl create`:
<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="tctl users update">
  ```sh
  $ tctl users update alice@example.com --set-roles=access
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="tctl create">
    First save Alice's user resource to a local file:
    ```sh
    $ tctl get users/alice@example.com > alice.yaml
    ```

    Then modify `alice.yaml` to assign the `access` role:
    ```yaml
    kind: user
    metadata:
      name: alice@example.com
    spec:
      roles: ["access"]
      traits:
        db_users: ["*"]
        db_names: ["*"]
    ```

    Finally, use `tctl create --force` to update the user
    (`--force` is required to overwrite an already existing resource).
    ```sh
    $ tctl create --force alice.yaml
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Now Alice can connect to any database in the Teleport cluster using any database user or database name.

This example is intentionally simple; we could have configured Alice's permissions using more fine-grained control.
For more detailed information about database access controls and how to restrict
access see the [RBAC](../database-access/rbac.mdx) documentation.

## Connection to MySQL database results in "Unknown system variable 'query_cache_size'" error

When TLS Routing is disable by default, the Teleport Proxy Service returns `8.0.0-Teleport` as the MySQL server version. In some cases, like connecting with a GUI Client, this can result in obtaining an `Unknown system variable 'query_cache_size'` error that indicates that MySQL capabilities were not properly negotiated between the MySQL client and server.

One way to solve this issue is to [use the TLS Routing
feature](../management/operations/tls-routing.mdx), where the Teleport Proxy
Service propagates the correct MySQL server version via TLS Routing extensions.

If migration to TLS Routing is not possible, another way to bypass this error is
to use the [Teleport local proxy
command](../connect-your-client/gui-clients.mdx#get-connection-information),
which allows you to establish a TLS Routing connection to the Teleport Proxy
Service even if TLS Routing was not enabled on the Teleport cluster.

```yaml
proxy_service:
  mysql_server_version: "8.0.4"
```
