---
title: Teleport Core Concepts
description: Learn the key components that make up Teleport.
---

Here are the core concepts that describe a Teleport deployment. You will see
these terms often when setting up and managing Teleport, so you should get
familiar with them before following other pages in the documentation.

## Teleport cluster

The key concept of Teleport's architecture is the **cluster**. A Teleport
cluster consists of the **Teleport Auth Service** and **Teleport Proxy
Service**, plus the **Teleport services** that manage traffic to resources
within your infrastructure, such as Kubernetes clusters and Windows desktops.

A minimal Teleport cluster consists of the **Teleport Auth Service** and
**Teleport Proxy Service**. In a demo environment, you can run these two
services from a single `teleport` process on a [Linux
host](./index.mdx).

### Teleport Auth Service

The **Teleport Auth Service** manages **local users** and **configuration
resources** within a **Teleport cluster**. It maintains certificate authorities
that enable users and services to authenticate to your cluster. The Auth Service
issues certificates to clients and maintains an audit log.

The Auth Service is the only component of a cluster that has to be connected to
a backend, which it uses to store cluster state and the certificate authorities'
private keys. **Teleport services** are stateless and interact with the Auth
Service via a gRPC API.

You can run multiple Auth Service instances in a cluster for high availability.

Read our guides to how [authorization](./architecture/authorization.mdx) and
[authentication](./architecture/authentication.mdx) work in Teleport.

### Teleport Proxy Service

The **Teleport Proxy Service** allows for secure access to resources in your
infrastructure from the public internet without the need for a VPN. 

It establishes reverse tunnels to the **Teleport Auth Service** and **Teleport
Services**, which can run in private networks. This means that, in the Proxy
Service's minimal configuration, you can expose only port `443` to the internet
and run the rest of your infrastructure in private networks.

You can also configure clients to bypass Proxy Service instances and connect to
resources with Teleport-issued certificates directly. 

Read our guide to [how the Teleport Proxy Service
works](./architecture/proxy.mdx).

## Teleport services

A **Teleport service** manages access to resources in your infrastructure, such
as Kubernetes clusters, Windows desktops, internal web applications, and
databases.

A single running `teleport` process can run one or more **Teleport services**,
depending on the user's configuration. Read about all subcommands of `teleport`
in our [CLI Reference](./reference/cli/teleport.mdx).

### Teleport Application Service

Proxies HTTP and TCP traffic to user-configured endpoints, e.g., internal web
applications or the AWS Console.

Read more about the [Teleport Application
Service](./application-access/introduction.mdx).

### Teleport Database Service

Proxies TCP traffic in the native protocols of popular databases, including
PostgreSQL and MySQL. 

Read more about the [Teleport Database
Service](./database-access/introduction.mdx).

### Teleport Desktop Service

Proxies Remote Desktop Protocol traffic to Windows desktops.

Read more about the [Teleport Desktop
Service](./desktop-access/introduction.mdx).

### Teleport Kubernetes Service

Proxies HTTP traffic to the Kubernetes API server.

Read more about the [Teleport Kubernetes
Service](./kubernetes-access/introduction.mdx)

### Teleport SSH Service 

An SSH server implementation that allows users to execute commands on remote
machines while taking advantage of Teleport's built-in access controls,
auditing, and session recording.

Read more about the [Teleport SSH Service](./server-access/introduction.mdx).

### Machine ID

Allows machines and services—called bot users—to communicate securely with
resources in your infrastructure by automatically provisioning and renewing
credentials. 

Bot users can connect to resources in your infrastructure without relying
on static credentials (e.g., certificates and private keys) that become more
vulnerable to attacks the longer they remain in use.

Unlike other **Teleport services**, Machine ID runs via the `tbot` binary,
rather than the `teleport` binary.

Read more in our [Machine ID guide](./machine-id/introduction.mdx).

### Agent

An instance of a **Teleport service** is called an **agent**. For all Teleport
services besides the **Teleport SSH Service**, an agent can enable access to
multiple resources, and can run on a separate host from the resources it enables
access to. All agents must run in the same network as their target resources.

## Teleport editions

Teleport is available in several **editions**. All editions include the same open
source core, which is available at the
[`gravitational/teleport`](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport) repository
on GitHub.

You can find a detailed comparison of the features available in each Teleport 
edition in [Choose an edition](./choose-an-edition/introduction.mdx).

### Teleport Enterprise Cloud

**Teleport Enterprise Cloud** is a managed deployment of the **Teleport Auth
Service** and **Teleport Proxy Service**.

Our team at Teleport handles all tasks related to running the **Auth Service**
and **Proxy Service**, including upgrades and certificate management. Each
customer account, known as a **Teleport Enterprise Cloud tenant**, has its own
subdomain of `.teleport.sh`, e.g., `mytenant.teleport.sh`.

Read more in our [Teleport Enterprise Cloud
guide](./choose-an-edition/teleport-cloud/introduction.mdx).

### Teleport Enterprise

**Teleport Enterprise** is a paid plan that includes all of the features of
**Teleport Community Edition**, plus advanced features for organizations with
advanced security needs, such as support for Federal Information Processing
Standards (FIPS) and a hardware security module (HSM). Teleport Enterprise
includes a support agreement with Teleport.

Read more in our [Teleport Enterprise
guide](./choose-an-edition/teleport-enterprise/introduction.mdx).

### Teleport Community Edition

**Teleport Community Edition** is a free, open source distribution of Teleport
that anyone can download, install, and host on their own infrastructure.

## Configuration resources

A **configuration resource** is a document stored on the **Teleport Auth
Service** backend that specifies settings for your **Teleport cluster**.
Examples include **roles**, **local users**, and **authentication connectors**

Read more in our [resource reference](./reference/resources.mdx).

### Role

A **role** is a **configuration resource** that grants **Teleport users**
privileges within a cluster. Teleport's role-based access control (RBAC) is
restrictive by default, and a user needs explicit permissions before they can
access a resource or perform management tasks on a cluster.

Read our [guide to Teleport roles](./access-controls/guides/role-templates.mdx).

### Teleport users

Teleport allows for two kinds of users:

- **Local users** correspond to a `user` **configuration resource** stored on
  the **Auth Service** backend.
- **Single Sign-On (SSO) users** are stored on the backend of your SSO solution,
  e.g., Okta or GitHub. When a user authenticates to Teleport via your SSO
  solution, Teleport issues a certificate for the user and creates a temporary
  **local user** that is valid for the lifetime of the certificate.

Ultimately, a Teleport user is the subject of a certificate issued by the
**Teleport Auth Service**. The Auth Service verifies that a client or service
attempting to connect has a valid Teleport-issued certificate. It then uses the
subject of the certificate—including its username and Teleport roles—to
authorize the user.  

Read more about [local users](./reference/authentication.mdx) and how [SSO
authentication works in Teleport](./access-controls/sso.mdx).

### Authentication connector

An authentication connector is a **configuration resource** that allows users to
authenticate to Teleport via a Single Sign-On (SSO) solution. 

See our guide to [Authentication Options](./reference/authentication.mdx).

### Trusted clusters

Teleport allows you to configure a **trusted cluster relationship** between a 
**root cluster** and one or more **leaf clusters** that trust the root cluster 
certificate authority. The trust relationship between the root and leaf clusters 
enables users authenticated in the root cluster to access resources 
in leaf cluster. The root and leaf cluster operate independently with their own
users, roles, and resources, but the trust relationship allows users with certain roles
in the root cluster to be mapped to roles and permissions defined in the leaf cluster.

For more information about how to configure a trust relationship between clusters,
see [Configure Trusted Clusters](./management/admin/trustedclusters.mdx). 
For an overview of the architecture used in a trusted cluster relationship, see 
[Trusted Cluster Architecture](./architecture/trustedclusters.mdx).
