docs/pages/reference/authentication.mdx, before:

---
title: Authentication options
description: A reference for Teleport's authentication connectors
---

Teleport authenticates users either via the Proxy Service or with an identity
provider via **authentication connectors**.

## Local (no authentication connector)

Local authentication is used to authenticate against a local Teleport user
database. This database is managed by the [`tctl users`](./cli.mdx#tctl-users-add)
command. Teleport also supports multi-factor authentication (MFA) for the local
connector. There are several possible values (types) of MFA:

- `otp` is the default. It implements the [TOTP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time-based_One-time_Password_Algorithm)
  standard. You can use [Google Authenticator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Authenticator), [Authy](https://www.authy.com/) or any other TOTP client.
- `webauthn` implements the [Web Authentication standard](https://webauthn.guide) for utilizing
  second factor authenticators and hardware devices.
  You can use [YubiKeys](https://www.yubico.com/), [SoloKeys](https://solokeys.com/) or any other authenticator that
  implements FIDO2 or FIDO U2F standards.
  See our [Second Factor - WebAuthn](../access-controls/guides/webauthn.mdx) guide for detailed
  instructions on setting up WebAuthn for Teleport.
- `on` enables both TOTP and WebAuthn, and all local users are required to have at least one MFA device registered.
- `optional` enables both TOTP and WebAuthn but makes it optional for users. Local users that register a MFA device will
  be prompted for it during login. This option is useful when you need to gradually enable MFA usage before switching
  the value to `on`.
- `off` turns off multi-factor authentication.

<Admonition type="note">
  If you are using Teleport with a Single Sign-On solution, users can also register MFA devices, but Teleport will not prompt them for MFA during login. MFA for SSO users should be handled by the SSO provider.
</Admonition>

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise", "oss"]} label="Self-Hosted">

You can modify these settings either using a static configuration file or
dynamic configuration resources.

### Static configuration

Add the following to your Teleport configuration file, which is stored in
`/etc/teleport.yaml` by default.

  ```yaml
  auth_service:
    authentication:
      type: local
      second_factor: off
  ```

### Dynamic resource

Obtain your existing `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```code
$ tctl get cap > cap.yaml
```

If you have not defined a `cluster_auth_preference`, `cap.yaml` will be blank.

Ensure that `cap.yaml` includes the following content:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.teleport.sh
version: v2
```

Create the `cluster_auth_preference` resource via `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Cloud">

You can modify these settings using dynamic configuration resources.

Log in to Teleport from your local machine so you can use the Enterprise
edition of the `tctl` admin tool:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=myinstance.teleport.sh
$ tctl status
```

Obtain your existing `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```code
$ tctl get cap > cap.yaml
```

If you have not defined a `cluster_auth_preference`, `cap.yaml` will be blank.

Ensure that `cap.yaml` includes the following content:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.teleport.sh
version: v2
```

Create the `cluster_auth_preference` resource via `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Local user login failure rules

A local user is blocked from attempting logins if, within a 30 minute window, a local user has multiple:

- failed login attempts or
- failed password resets

The block lasts 20 minutes. After the block has expired the user may attempt to log in again.

Overriding a block is available to users with rights to maintain `user` resources,
available in the built-in `editor` role. To turn off a block, update the user entry,
following these steps.

Retrieve the user entry so you can edit the status:

```code
$ tctl get users/<Var name="username" /> > user.yaml
```

The file `user.yaml` should resemble the following:

```yaml
kind: user
metadata:
  name: jeff
spec:
  roles:
  - access
  status:
    is_locked: true
    lock_expires: "2023-04-22T01:55:02.228158166Z"
    locked_message: user has exceeded maximum failed login attempts
version: v2
```

Update the `is_locked` field under `status` to `false` and save the file. Now
update the user entry with the command below:

```code
$ tctl create -f user.yaml
```

The user will now be unblocked from login attempts and can attempt to authenticate again.

## Authentication connectors

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Cloud">

### GitHub

This connector implements GitHub's OAuth 2.0 authentication flow. Please refer to GitHub's documentation on [Creating an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/)
to learn how to create and register an OAuth app.

Here is an example of this setting in a `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: github
version: v2
```

See [GitHub OAuth 2.0](../access-controls/sso/github-sso.mdx) for details on how to configure it.

### SAML

This connector type implements SAML authentication. It can be configured against any external identity manager like Okta or Auth0.

Here is an example of this setting in a `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: saml
version: v2
```

### OIDC

Teleport implements OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication.

Here is an example of this setting in a `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: oidc
version: v2
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise"]} label="Enterprise">

### GitHub

This connector implements GitHub's OAuth 2.0 authentication flow. Please refer to GitHub's documentation on [Creating an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/)
to learn how to create and register an OAuth app.

Here is an example of this setting in the `teleport.yaml` :

```yaml
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: github
```

See [GitHub OAuth 2.0](../access-controls/sso/github-sso.mdx) for details on how to configure it.

### SAML

This connector type implements SAML authentication. It can be configured against any external identity manager like Okta or Auth0.

Here is an example of this setting in the `teleport.yaml` :

```yaml
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: saml
```

### OIDC

Teleport implements OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication, which is similar to SAML in principle.

Here is an example of this setting in the `teleport.yaml` :

```yaml
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: oidc
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["oss"]} label="Open Source">

### GitHub

This connector implements GitHub's OAuth 2.0 authentication flow. Please refer to GitHub's documentation on [Creating an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/)
to learn how to create and register an OAuth app.

Here is an example of this setting in the `teleport.yaml` :

```yaml
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: github
```

See [GitHub OAuth 2.0](../access-controls/sso/github-sso.mdx) for details on how to configure it.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Edit forScopes configurations and edit guides (#28890)
Backports #28443

* Edit forScopes configurations and edit guides

Closes #26500

This change requires merging gravitational/docs#326 to add a Team scope
to the docs.

This updates pages within the docs so that:

- Each page's `forScopes` configuration is accurate, especially with
  regard to support for Teleport Team.
- All scoped components match the `forScopes` configuration for each
  page. For this, I used the linter introduced by
  gravitational/docs#327.

* Respond to alexfornuto feedback

docs/pages/reference/authentication.mdx, after:

---
title: Authentication options
description: A reference for Teleport's authentication connectors
---

Teleport authenticates users either via the Proxy Service or with an identity
provider via **authentication connectors**.

## Local (no authentication connector)

Local authentication is used to authenticate against a local Teleport user
database. This database is managed by the [`tctl users`](./cli.mdx#tctl-users-add)
command. Teleport also supports multi-factor authentication (MFA) for the local
connector. There are several possible values (types) of MFA:

- `otp` is the default. It implements the [TOTP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time-based_One-time_Password_Algorithm)
  standard. You can use [Google Authenticator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Authenticator), [Authy](https://www.authy.com/) or any other TOTP client.
- `webauthn` implements the [Web Authentication standard](https://webauthn.guide) for utilizing
  second factor authenticators and hardware devices.
  You can use [YubiKeys](https://www.yubico.com/), [SoloKeys](https://solokeys.com/) or any other authenticator that
  implements FIDO2 or FIDO U2F standards.
  See our [Second Factor - WebAuthn](../access-controls/guides/webauthn.mdx) guide for detailed
  instructions on setting up WebAuthn for Teleport.
- `on` enables both TOTP and WebAuthn, and all local users are required to have at least one MFA device registered.
- `optional` enables both TOTP and WebAuthn but makes it optional for users. Local users that register a MFA device will
  be prompted for it during login. This option is useful when you need to gradually enable MFA usage before switching
  the value to `on`.
- `off` turns off multi-factor authentication.

<Admonition type="note">
  If you are using Teleport with a Single Sign-On solution, users can also register MFA devices, but Teleport will not prompt them for MFA during login. MFA for SSO users should be handled by the SSO provider.
</Admonition>

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise", "oss"]} label="Self-Hosted">

You can modify these settings either using a static configuration file or
dynamic configuration resources.

### Static configuration

Add the following to your Teleport configuration file, which is stored in
`/etc/teleport.yaml` by default.

  ```yaml
  auth_service:
    authentication:
      type: local
      second_factor: off
  ```

### Dynamic resource

Obtain your existing `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```code
$ tctl get cap > cap.yaml
```

If you have not defined a `cluster_auth_preference`, `cap.yaml` will be blank.

Ensure that `cap.yaml` includes the following content:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.teleport.sh
version: v2
```

Create the `cluster_auth_preference` resource via `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud","team"]} label="Cloud-Hosted">

You can modify these settings using dynamic configuration resources.

Log in to Teleport from your local machine so you can use the `tctl` admin tool:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=myinstance.teleport.sh
$ tctl status
```

Obtain your existing `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```code
$ tctl get cap > cap.yaml
```

If you have not defined a `cluster_auth_preference`, `cap.yaml` will be blank.

Ensure that `cap.yaml` includes the following content:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.teleport.sh
version: v2
```

Create the `cluster_auth_preference` resource via `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Local user login failure rules

A local user is blocked from attempting logins if, within a 30 minute window, a local user has multiple:

- failed login attempts or
- failed password resets

The block lasts 20 minutes. After the block has expired the user may attempt to log in again.

Overriding a block is available to users with rights to maintain `user` resources,
available in the built-in `editor` role. To turn off a block, update the user entry,
following these steps.

Retrieve the user entry so you can edit the status:

```code
$ tctl get users/<Var name="username" /> > user.yaml
```

The file `user.yaml` should resemble the following:

```yaml
kind: user
metadata:
  name: jeff
spec:
  roles:
  - access
  status:
    is_locked: true
    lock_expires: "2023-04-22T01:55:02.228158166Z"
    locked_message: user has exceeded maximum failed login attempts
version: v2
```

Update the `is_locked` field under `status` to `false` and save the file. Now
update the user entry with the command below:

```code
$ tctl create -f user.yaml
```

The user will now be unblocked from login attempts and can attempt to authenticate again.

## Authentication connectors

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope="team" label="Teleport Team">

### GitHub

This connector implements GitHub's OAuth 2.0 authentication flow. Please refer to GitHub's documentation on [Creating an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/)
to learn how to create and register an OAuth app.

Here is an example of this setting in a `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: github
version: v2
```

See [GitHub OAuth 2.0](../access-controls/sso/github-sso.mdx) for details on how to configure it.

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Enterprise Cloud">

### GitHub

This connector implements GitHub's OAuth 2.0 authentication flow. Please refer to GitHub's documentation on [Creating an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/)
to learn how to create and register an OAuth app.

Here is an example of this setting in a `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: github
version: v2
```

See [GitHub OAuth 2.0](../access-controls/sso/github-sso.mdx) for details on how to configure it.

### SAML

This connector type implements SAML authentication. It can be configured against any external identity manager like Okta or Auth0.

Here is an example of this setting in a `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: saml
version: v2
```

### OIDC

Teleport implements OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication.

Here is an example of this setting in a `cluster_auth_preference` resource:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: oidc
version: v2
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise"]} label="Enterprise">

### GitHub

This connector implements GitHub's OAuth 2.0 authentication flow. Please refer to GitHub's documentation on [Creating an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/)
to learn how to create and register an OAuth app.

Here is an example of this setting in the `teleport.yaml` :

```yaml
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: github
```

See [GitHub OAuth 2.0](../access-controls/sso/github-sso.mdx) for details on how to configure it.

### SAML

This connector type implements SAML authentication. It can be configured against any external identity manager like Okta or Auth0.

Here is an example of this setting in the `teleport.yaml` :

```yaml
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: saml
```

### OIDC

Teleport implements OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication, which is similar to SAML in principle.

Here is an example of this setting in the `teleport.yaml` :

```yaml
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: oidc
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["oss"]} label="Open Source">

### GitHub

This connector implements GitHub's OAuth 2.0 authentication flow. Please refer to GitHub's documentation on [Creating an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/)
to learn how to create and register an OAuth app.

Here is an example of this setting in the `teleport.yaml` :

```yaml
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: github
```

See [GitHub OAuth 2.0](../access-controls/sso/github-sso.mdx) for details on how to configure it.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
