docs/pages/reference/predicate-language.mdx, before:

---
title: Predicate Language
description: How to use Teleport's predicate language to define filter conditions.
---

Teleport's predicate language is used to define conditions for filtering in dynamic configuration resources.
It is also used as a query language to filter and search through a [list of select resources](#resource-filtering).

The predicate language uses a slightly different syntax depending on whether it is used in:

- [Role resources](#scoping-allowdeny-rules-in-role-resources)
- [Resource filtering](#resource-filtering)
- [Label expressions](#label-expressions)

## Scoping allow/deny rules in role resources

Some fields in Teleport's role resources use the predicate language to define
the scope of a role's permissions:

- [Dynamic Impersonation](../access-controls/guides/impersonation.mdx#filter-fields)
- [RBAC for sessions](../access-controls/reference.mdx#filter-fields)

When used in role resources, the predicate language supports the following operators:

| Operator | Meaning                                          | Example                                                  |
|----------|--------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| &&       | and (all conditions must match)                  | `contains(field1, field2) && equals(field2, "val")`      |
| \|\|     | or  (any one condition should match)             | `contains(field1, field2) \|\| contains(field1, "val2")` |
| !        | not (used with functions, more about this below) | `!equals(field1, field2)`                                |

The language also supports the following functions:

| Functions                      | Description                                                                           |
|--------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `contains(<field>, <field2>)`  | checks if the value from `<field2>` is included in the list of strings from `<field>` |
| `contains(<field>, "<value>")` | checks if `<value>` is included in the list of strings from `<field>`                 |
| `equals(<field>, <field2>)`    | checks if the value from `<field2>` is equal to the value from `<field>`              |
| `equals(<field>, "<value>")`   | checks if `<value>` is equal to the value from `<field>`                              |

## Resource filtering

Both the [`tsh`](cli.mdx#tsh) and [`tctl`](cli.mdx#tctl) CLI tools allow you to filter nodes,
applications, databases, and Kubernetes resources using the `--query` flag. The `--query` flag allows you to
perform more sophisticated searches using the predicate language.

For common resource fields, we defined shortened field names that can easily be accessed by:

| Short Field       | Actual Field Equivalent                                                                | Example                      |
|-------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|
| `labels["<key>"]` | `resource.metadata.labels` + `resource.spec.dynamic_labels`                            | `labels["env"] == "staging"` |
| `name`            | `resource.spec.hostname` (only applies to server resource) or `resource.metadata.name` | `name == "jenkins"`          |

The language supports the following operators:

| Operator | Meaning                              | Example                                                |
|----------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| ==       | equal to                             | `labels["env"] == "prod"` or ``labels[`env`] == "prod"`` |
| !=       | not equal to                         | `labels["env"] != "prod"`                              |
| &&       | and (all conditions must match)      | `labels["env"] == "prod" && labels["os"] == "mac"`     |
| \|\|     | or  (any one condition should match) | `labels["env"] == "dev" \|\| labels["env"] == "qa"`    |
| !        | not (used with functions)            | `!equals(labels["env"], "prod")`                       |

The language also supports the following functions:

| Functions (with examples)             | Description                                                |
|---------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| `equals(labels["env"], "prod")`       | resources with label key `env` equal to label value `prod` |
| `exists(labels["env"])`               | resources with a label key `env`; label value unchecked    |
| `!exists(labels["env"])`              | resources without a label key `env`; label value unchecked |
| `search("foo", "bar", "some phrase")` | fuzzy match against common resource fields                 |

See some [examples](cli.mdx#filter-examples) of the different ways you can filter resources.

## Label expressions

<Admonition type="warning">
Label expressions are available starting in Teleport version `13.1.1`.
All components of your Teleport cluster must be upgraded to version `13.1.1`
or newer before you will be able to use label expressions.
This includes the Auth Service and **all** Teleport agents.
</Admonition>

Label expressions can be used in Teleport roles to define access to resources
with custom logic.
Check out the Access Controls
[reference page](../access-controls/reference.mdx#label-expressions)
for an overview of label expressions and where they can be used.

Label expressions support a predicate language with the following fields
available:

| Field              | Type                    | Description |
|--------------------|-------------------------|-------------|
| `labels`           | `map[string]string`     | Combined static and dynamic labels of the resource (server, application, etc.) being accessed. |
| `user.spec.traits` | `map[string][]string`   | All traits of the user accessing the resource (referred to as `external` or `internal` in role template expressions). |

The language supports the following functions:

| Syntax | Return type | Description | Example |
|--------|-------------|-------------|---------|
| `contains(list, item)` | Boolean | Returns true if `list` contains an exact match for `item` | `contains(user.spec.traits[teams], labels["team"])` |
| `regexp.match(list, re)` | Boolean | Returns true if `list` contains a match for `re` | `regexp.match(labels["team"], "dev-team-\d+$")` |
| `regexp.replace(list,` `re, replacement)` | `[]string` | Replaces all matches of `re` with replacement for all items in `list` | `contains(regexp.replace(user.spec.traits["allowed-env"],` `"^env-(.*)$", "$1"), labels["env"])`
| `email.local(list)` | `[]string` | Returns the local part of each email in `list`, or an error if any email fails to parse | `contains(email.local(user.spec.traits["email"]),` `labels["owner"])`
| `strings.upper(list)` | `[]string` | Converts all items of the list to uppercase | `contains(strings.upper(user.spec.traits["username"]),` `labels["owner"])`
| `strings.lower(list)` | `[]string` | Converts all items of the list to lowercase | `contains(strings.lower(user.spec.traits["username"]),` `labels["owner"])`
| `labels_matching(re)` | `[]string` | Returns the aggregate of all label values with keys matching `re`, which can be a glob or a regular expression | `contains(labels_matching("^project-(team\|label)$"),` `"security")`
| `contains_any(list, items)` | Boolean | Returns true if `list` contains an exact match for any element of `items` | `contains_any(user.spec.traits["projects"],` `labels_matching("project-*"))` |
| `contains_all(list, items)` | Boolean | Returns true if `list` contains an exact match for all elements of `items` | `contains_all(user.spec.traits["projects"],` `labels_matching("project-*"))` |

Above, any argument named `list` can accept a list of values (like the list of
values for a specific user trait) or a single value (like the value of a
resource label or a string literal).

The language also supports the following operators:

| Operator | Meaning                             | Example |
|----------|-------------------------------------|---------|
| ==       | equal to                            | `labels["env"] == "staging"` |
| !=       | not equal to                        | `labels["env"] != "production"` |
| \|\|      | or (any one condition should match) | `labels["env"] == "staging" \|\| labels["env"] == "test"` |
| &&       | and (all conditions must match)     | `labels["env"] == "staging" && labels["team"] == "dev"` |
| !        | not (logical negation)              | `!regexp.match(user.spec.traits["teams"], "contractor")` |

Commit message:

update tsh db resource selection (#28505)
* update tsh db resource selection

* add --labels and --query to tsh db subcommands
* tsh db [login | logout | env | config | connect]
* tsh proxy db

* add hasPrefix to predicate lang

* add teleport.dev/discovered-name
* print "discovered name" of databases discovered by discovery service,
  which is the name of the database resource in the cloud, when using
  tsh db ls without --verbose flag. This avoids printing verbose
  uniquely identifying names when discovery service is updated to append
  a uniquely identify suffix to discovered databases in AWS/Azure/GCP.
* tsh db ls --verbose ignores the label
* fix db connect string in tsh db ls

* select database by prefix, labels, and/or query predicate.
* chooses active database by exact match if the "prefix" matches exactly
  and no labels/predicate is given.
* logout of a subset of databases with tsh db logout.
* print an "ambiguous match" error if prefix/labels/query matches
  multiple databases where one is required.
* move all --labels cli flags to cf.Labels from cf.UserHost

* update tsh db tests
    * speedup slow tsh db tests
    * postgres/mysql profile respect home dir
    * rename test cases for consistency
    * test database listing uses discovered-name
    * test login/env/config/logout with prefix/label/predicate selectors
    * test active db filtering logic

* fix tests broken by merge

docs/pages/reference/predicate-language.mdx, after:

---
title: Predicate Language
description: How to use Teleport's predicate language to define filter conditions.
---

Teleport's predicate language is used to define conditions for filtering in dynamic configuration resources.
It is also used as a query language to filter and search through a [list of select resources](#resource-filtering).

The predicate language uses a slightly different syntax depending on whether it is used in:

- [Role resources](#scoping-allowdeny-rules-in-role-resources)
- [Resource filtering](#resource-filtering)
- [Label expressions](#label-expressions)

## Scoping allow/deny rules in role resources

Some fields in Teleport's role resources use the predicate language to define
the scope of a role's permissions:

- [Dynamic Impersonation](../access-controls/guides/impersonation.mdx#filter-fields)
- [RBAC for sessions](../access-controls/reference.mdx#filter-fields)

When used in role resources, the predicate language supports the following operators:

| Operator | Meaning                                          | Example                                                  |
|----------|--------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| &&       | and (all conditions must match)                  | `contains(field1, field2) && equals(field2, "val")`      |
| \|\|     | or  (any one condition should match)             | `contains(field1, field2) \|\| contains(field1, "val2")` |
| !        | not (used with functions, more about this below) | `!equals(field1, field2)`                                |

The language also supports the following functions:

| Functions                      | Description                                                                           |
|--------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `contains(<field>, <field2>)`  | checks if the value from `<field2>` is included in the list of strings from `<field>` |
| `contains(<field>, "<value>")` | checks if `<value>` is included in the list of strings from `<field>`                 |
| `equals(<field>, <field2>)`    | checks if the value from `<field2>` is equal to the value from `<field>`              |
| `equals(<field>, "<value>")`   | checks if `<value>` is equal to the value from `<field>`                              |

## Resource filtering

Both the [`tsh`](cli.mdx#tsh) and [`tctl`](cli.mdx#tctl) CLI tools allow you to filter nodes,
applications, databases, and Kubernetes resources using the `--query` flag. The `--query` flag allows you to
perform more sophisticated searches using the predicate language.

For common resource fields, we defined shortened field names that can easily be accessed by:

| Short Field       | Actual Field Equivalent                                                                | Example                      |
|-------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|
| `labels["<key>"]` | `resource.metadata.labels` + `resource.spec.dynamic_labels`                            | `labels["env"] == "staging"` |
| `name`            | `resource.spec.hostname` (only applies to server resource) or `resource.metadata.name` | `name == "jenkins"`          |

The language supports the following operators:

| Operator | Meaning                              | Example                                                |
|----------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| ==       | equal to                             | `labels["env"] == "prod"` or ``labels[`env`] == "prod"`` |
| !=       | not equal to                         | `labels["env"] != "prod"`                              |
| &&       | and (all conditions must match)      | `labels["env"] == "prod" && labels["os"] == "mac"`     |
| \|\|     | or  (any one condition should match) | `labels["env"] == "dev" \|\| labels["env"] == "qa"`    |
| !        | not (used with functions)            | `!equals(labels["env"], "prod")`                       |

The language also supports the following functions:

| Functions (with examples)             | Description                                                |
|---------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| `equals(labels["env"], "prod")`       | resources with label key `env` equal to label value `prod` |
| `exists(labels["env"])`               | resources with a label key `env`; label value unchecked    |
| `!exists(labels["env"])`              | resources without a label key `env`; label value unchecked |
| `search("foo", "bar", "some phrase")` | fuzzy match against common resource fields                 |
| `hasPrefix(name, "foo")`              | resources with a name that starts with the prefix `foo`    |

See some [examples](cli.mdx#filter-examples) of the different ways you can filter resources.

## Label expressions

<Admonition type="warning">
Label expressions are available starting in Teleport version `13.1.1`.
All components of your Teleport cluster must be upgraded to version `13.1.1`
or newer before you will be able to use label expressions.
This includes the Auth Service and **all** Teleport agents.
</Admonition>

Label expressions can be used in Teleport roles to define access to resources
with custom logic.
Check out the Access Controls
[reference page](../access-controls/reference.mdx#label-expressions)
for an overview of label expressions and where they can be used.

Label expressions support a predicate language with the following fields
available:

| Field              | Type                    | Description |
|--------------------|-------------------------|-------------|
| `labels`           | `map[string]string`     | Combined static and dynamic labels of the resource (server, application, etc.) being accessed. |
| `user.spec.traits` | `map[string][]string`   | All traits of the user accessing the resource (referred to as `external` or `internal` in role template expressions). |

The language supports the following functions:

| Syntax | Return type | Description | Example |
|--------|-------------|-------------|---------|
| `contains(list, item)` | Boolean | Returns true if `list` contains an exact match for `item` | `contains(user.spec.traits[teams], labels["team"])` |
| `regexp.match(list, re)` | Boolean | Returns true if `list` contains a match for `re` | `regexp.match(labels["team"], "dev-team-\d+$")` |
| `regexp.replace(list,` `re, replacement)` | `[]string` | Replaces all matches of `re` with replacement for all items in `list` | `contains(regexp.replace(user.spec.traits["allowed-env"],` `"^env-(.*)$", "$1"), labels["env"])`
| `email.local(list)` | `[]string` | Returns the local part of each email in `list`, or an error if any email fails to parse | `contains(email.local(user.spec.traits["email"]),` `labels["owner"])`
| `strings.upper(list)` | `[]string` | Converts all items of the list to uppercase | `contains(strings.upper(user.spec.traits["username"]),` `labels["owner"])`
| `strings.lower(list)` | `[]string` | Converts all items of the list to lowercase | `contains(strings.lower(user.spec.traits["username"]),` `labels["owner"])`
| `labels_matching(re)` | `[]string` | Returns the aggregate of all label values with keys matching `re`, which can be a glob or a regular expression | `contains(labels_matching("^project-(team\|label)$"),` `"security")`
| `contains_any(list, items)` | Boolean | Returns true if `list` contains an exact match for any element of `items` | `contains_any(user.spec.traits["projects"],` `labels_matching("project-*"))` |
| `contains_all(list, items)` | Boolean | Returns true if `list` contains an exact match for all elements of `items` | `contains_all(user.spec.traits["projects"],` `labels_matching("project-*"))` |

Above, any argument named `list` can accept a list of values (like the list of
values for a specific user trait) or a single value (like the value of a
resource label or a string literal).

The language also supports the following operators:

| Operator | Meaning                             | Example |
|----------|-------------------------------------|---------|
| ==       | equal to                            | `labels["env"] == "staging"` |
| !=       | not equal to                        | `labels["env"] != "production"` |
| \|\|      | or (any one condition should match) | `labels["env"] == "staging" \|\| labels["env"] == "test"` |
| &&       | and (all conditions must match)     | `labels["env"] == "staging" && labels["team"] == "dev"` |
| !        | not (logical negation)              | `!regexp.match(user.spec.traits["teams"], "contractor")` |
