docs/pages/reference/resources.mdx, before:

---
title: Teleport Resources
h1: Teleport Resource Reference
description: Reference documentation for Teleport resources
---

This reference guide lists dynamic resources you can manage with Teleport. For
more information on dynamic resources, see our guide to [Using Dynamic
Resources](../admin-guides/infrastructure-as-code/infrastructure-as-code.mdx).

Examples of applying dynamic resources with `tctl`:

```code
# List all connectors:
$ tctl get connectors

# Dump a SAML connector called "okta":
$ tctl get saml/okta

# Delete a SAML connector called "okta":
$ tctl rm saml/okta

# Delete an OIDC connector called "gworkspace":
$ tctl rm oidc/gworkspace

# Delete a github connector called "myteam":
$ tctl rm github/myteam

# Delete a local user called "admin":
$ tctl rm users/admin

# Show all devices:
$ tctl get devices

# Fetch a specific device:
$ tctl get devices/<asset-tag>

# Fetch the cluster auth preferences
$ tctl get cluster_auth_preference
```

<Admonition type="note">
  Although `tctl get connectors` will show you every connector, when working with an individual connector you must use the correct `kind`, such as `saml` or `oidc`. You can see each connector's `kind` at the top of its YAML output from `tctl get connectors`.
</Admonition>

## List of dynamic resources

Here's the list of resources currently exposed via [`tctl`](./cli/tctl.mdx):

| Resource Kind | Description |
| - | - |
| [user](#user) | A user record in the internal Teleport user DB. |
| [role](#role) | A role assumed by interactive and non-interactive users. |
| connector | Authentication connectors for [Single Sign-On](../admin-guides/access-controls/sso/sso.mdx) (SSO) for SAML, OIDC and GitHub. |
| node | A registered SSH node. The same record is displayed via `tctl nodes ls`. |
| windows_desktop | A registered Windows desktop. |
| cluster | A trusted cluster. See [here](../admin-guides/management/admin/trustedclusters.mdx) for more details on connecting clusters together. |
| [login_rule](#login-rules) | A Login Rule, see the [Login Rules guide](../admin-guides/access-controls/login-rules/login-rules.mdx) for more info. |
| [device](#device) | A Teleport Trusted Device, see the [Device Trust guide](../admin-guides/access-controls/device-trust/guide.mdx) for more info. |
| [ui_config](#ui-config) | Configuration for the Web UI served by the Proxy Service. |
| [vnet_config](#vnet-config) | Configuration for the cluster's VNet options. |
| [cluster_auth_preference](#cluster-auth-preferences) | Configuration for the cluster's auth preferences. |
| [database_object_import_rule](#database-object-import-rule) | Database object import rules. |
| [autoupdate_config](#auto-update-config) | Client tools auto-update configuration |
| [autoupdate_version](#auto-update-version) | Client tools auto-update target version configuration |

## User

Teleport supports interactive local users, non-interactive local users (bots)
and single-sign on users that are represented as a resource.

```yaml
kind: user
version: v2
metadata:
  name: joe
spec:
  # roles is a list of roles assigned to this user
  roles:
  - admin
  # status sets user temporarily locked in a Teleport system, for example
  # when users exceed predefined amount of failed login attempts
  status:
    is_locked: false
    lock_expires: 0001-01-01T00:00:00Z
    locked_time: 0001-01-01T00:00:00Z
  # traits are key, list of values pairs assigned to a user resource.
  # Traits can be used in role templates as variables.
  traits:
    logins:
    - joe
    - root
  # expires, if not empty, sets automatic expiry of the resource
  expires: 0001-01-01T00:00:00Z
  # created_by is a system property that tracks
  # identity of the author of this user resource.
  created_by:
    time: 0001-01-01T00:00:00Z
    user:
      name: builtin-Admin
```

## Role

Interactive and non-interactive users (bots) assume one or many roles.

Roles govern access to databases, SSH servers, Kubernetes clusters, web services and applications and Windows Desktops.

(!docs/pages/includes/role-spec.mdx!)

### Role versions

Versions 5, 6 and 7 of the Teleport role resource have different behaviors when
accessing Kubernetes resources.
{/*lint ignore messaging*/}
Roles not [granting Kubernetes access](../enroll-resources/kubernetes-access/introduction.mdx) are
equivalent in the three versions.

Roles v5 and v6 can only restrict actions on pods (e.g. executing in them).
Role v7 supports restricting all common resource kinds (
see [the `kubernetes_resource` documentation](../enroll-resources/kubernetes-access/controls.mdx#kubernetes_resources)
for a complete list).

When no `kubernetes_resource` is set:
- Roles v5 and v7 grant all access by default
- Roles v6 blocks pod execution by default, this was reverted by roles v7 to improve the user experience.

{/* This table is cursed. Our current docs engine doesn't support HTML tables
(due to SSR and the rehydration process). We have dto do everything inlined in
markdown. Some HTML character codes are used to render specific chars like {}
or to avoid line breaks in the middle fo the YAML. Spaces before br tags
are required.*/}

| Allow rule                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Role v5                                                                                                           | Role v6                                                                                                           | Role v7                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <pre>kubernetes_groups: <br/>  - "system:masters" <br/>kubernetes_labels: &#123;&#125; <br/>kubernetes_resources:&nbsp;[]<br/></pre>                                                                                                                                      | ❌ no access                                                                                                       | ❌ no access                                                                                                       | ❌ no access                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| <pre>kubernetes_groups: <br/>  - "system:masters" <br/>kubernetes_labels: <br/>  env: ["dev"] <br/>kubernetes_resources:&nbsp;[]<br/></pre>                                                                                                                               | ✅ full access to `dev` clusters                                                                                   | ❌ cannot exec in pods <br/> ✅ can access other <br/>resources like `secrets`                                      | ✅ full access to `dev` clusters                                                                                                                                                                       |
| <pre>kubernetes_groups: <br/>  - "system:masters" <br/>kubernetes_labels: <br/>  env: ["dev"] <br/>kubernetes_resources: <br/>  - name: "&ast;" <br/>    kind: pod <br/>    namespace: "foo"</pre>                                                                        | ✅ can exec in pods in `foo` <br/>✅ can access `secrets` in all namespaces. <br/>❌ cannot exec in other namespaces | ✅ can exec in pods in `foo` <br/>✅ can access `secrets` in all namespaces. <br/>❌ cannot exec in other namespaces | ✅ can exec in pods in `foo` <br/>❌ cannot access `secrets` in all namespaces <br/>❌ cannot exec in other namespaces                                                                                   |
| <pre>kubernetes_groups: <br/>  - "system:masters" <br/>kubernetes_labels: <br/>  env: ["dev"] <br/>kubernetes_resources: <br/>  - name: "&ast;" <br/>    kind: pod <br/>    namespace: "foo" <br/>  - name: "&ast;" <br/>    kind: secret <br/>    namespace: "foo"</pre> | ⚠️ not supported                                                                                                  | ⚠️ not supported                                                                                                  | ✅ can exec in pods in `foo` <br/>✅ can access `secrets` in `foo` <br/>❌ cannot exec in other namespaces <br/>❌ cannot access `secrets` in other namespaces <br/>❌ cannot access `configmaps` in `foo` |
| <pre>kubernetes_groups: <br/>  - "system:masters" <br/>kubernetes_labels: <br/>  env: ["dev"] <br/>kubernetes_resources: <br/>  - kind: "namespace" <br/>    name: "foo"</pre>                                                                                            | ⚠️ not supported                                                                                                  | ⚠️ not supported                                                                                                  | ✅ full access in namespace `foo` <br/>❌ cannot access other namespaces                                                                                                                                |


## Windows desktops

In most cases, Teleport will register `windows_desktop` resources automatically
based on static hosts in your configuration file or via LDAP-based discovery.

You can also use [dynamic
registration](../enroll-resources/desktop-access/dynamic-registration.mdx) using
`dynamic_windows_desktop` resources. This can be useful for managing inventories
of hosts that are not joined to an Active Directory domain.

There are a few important considerations to keep in mind when registering
desktops this way:

1. The desktop's `addr` can be a hostname or IP address, and should include
   the RDP port (typically 3389).
1. If you intend to log in to the desktop with local Windows users you must set
   `non_ad: true`. If you intend to log in with Active Directory users, leave
   `non_ad` unset (or false), and specify the Active Directory domain in the
   `domain` field.

## Login Rules

Login rules contain logic to transform SSO user traits during login.

(!docs/pages/includes/login-rule-spec.mdx!)

## Database object import rule

Database object import rule define the labels to be applied to database objects imported into Teleport.

See [Database Access Controls](../enroll-resources/database-access/rbac.mdx) for more details.

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/auto-user-provisioning/database-object-import-rule-spec.mdx!)

## Device

Device contains information identifying a trusted device.

(!docs/pages/includes/device-spec.mdx!)

## UI config

Global configuration options for the Web UI served by the Proxy Service. This resource is not set by default, which means a `tctl get ui` will result in an error if used before this resource has been set.

(!docs/pages/includes/ui-config-spec.mdx!)

## VNet config

Cluster-specific options VNet should use when setting up connections to resources from this cluster.

See [VNet](../enroll-resources/application-access/guides/vnet.mdx) for more details.

```yaml
kind: vnet_config
version: v1
metadata:
  name: vnet-config
spec:
  # The range to use when assigning IP addresses to resources.
  # It can be changed in case of conflicts with other software
  # deployed on end user devices. Defaults to "100.64.0.0/10".
  ipv4_cidr_range: "100.64.0.0/10"
  # Extra DNS zones that VNet should capture DNS queries for.
  # Set them if your TCP apps use custom public_addr.
  # Requires DNS TXT record to be set on the domains,
  # see the guide linked above. Empty by default.
  custom_dns_zones:
  - suffix: company.test
```

## Cluster maintenance config

Global configuration options for the agents enrolled into automatic updates.

(!docs/pages/includes/cluster-maintenance-config-spec.mdx!)

## Cluster auth preferences

Global cluster configuration options for authentication.

```yaml
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  # Sets the list of allowed second factors for the cluster.
  # Possible values: "otp", "webauthn", and "sso".
  # Defaults to ["otp"].
  second_factors: ["webauthn", "otp"]

  # second_factors is the list of allowed second factors for the cluster.
  # Possible values: "on", "otp" and "webauthn"
  # If "on" is set, all MFA protocols are supported.
  #
  # Prefer setting second_factors instead.
  #second_factor: "webauthn"

  # The name of the OIDC or SAML connector. if this is not set, the first connector in the backend is used.
  connector_name: ""

  # webauthn is the settings for server-side Web authentication support.
  webauthn:
    # rp_id is the ID of the Relying Party.
    # It should be set to the domain name of the Teleport installation.
    #
    # IMPORTANT: rp_id must never change in the lifetime of the cluster, because
    # it's recorded in the registration data on the WebAuthn device. If the
    # ri_id changes, all existing WebAuthn key registrations will become invalid
    # and all users who use WebAuthn as the second factor will need to
    # re-register.
    rp_id: teleport.example.com
    # Allow list of device attestation CAs in PEM format.
    # If present, only devices whose attestation certificates match the
    # certificates specified here may be registered (existing registrations are
    # unchanged).
    # If supplied in conjunction with `attestation_denied_cas`, then both
    # conditions need to be true for registration to be allowed (the device
    # MUST match an allowed CA and MUST NOT match a denied CA).
    # By default all devices are allowed.
    attestation_allowed_cas: []
    # Deny list of device attestation CAs in PEM format.
    # If present, only devices whose attestation certificates don't match the
    # certificates specified here may be registered (existing registrations are
    # unchanged).
    attestation_denied_cas: []

  # Enforce per-session MFA or PIV-hardware key restrictions on user login sessions.
  # Possible values: true, false, "hardware_key", "hardware_key_touch".
  # Defaults to false.
  require_session_mfa: false

  # Sets whether connections with expired client certificates will be disconnected.
  disconnect_expired_cert: false

  # Sets whether headless authentication is allowed.
  # Headless authentication requires WebAuthn.
  # Defaults to true if webauthn is configured.
  allow_headless: false

  # Sets whether local auth is enabled alongside any other authentication
  # type.
  allow_local_auth: true

  # Sets whether passwordless authentication is allowed.
  # Requires Webauthn to work.
  allow_passwordless: false

  # Sets the message of the day for the cluster.
  message_of_the_day: ""

  # idp is a set of options related to accessing IdPs within Teleport. Requires Teleport Enterprise
  idp:
    # options related to the Teleport SAML IdP.
    saml:
      # enables access to the Teleport SAML IdP.
      enabled: true

  # locking_mode is the cluster-wide locking mode default.
  # Possible values: "strict" or "best_effort"
  locking_mode: best_effort

  # default_session_ttl defines the default TTL (time to live) of certificates
  # issued to the users on this cluster.
  default_session_ttl: "12h"

  # The type of authentication to use for this cluster.
  # Possible values: "local", "oidc", "saml" and "github"
  type: local

version: v2
```

## Bot

Bot resources define a Machine ID Bot identity and its access.

Find out more on the
[Machine ID configuration reference](machine-id/configuration.mdx).

(!docs/pages/includes/machine-id/bot-spec.mdx!)

## Auto-update config

Configuration options for managed updates for Teleport client tools.

```yaml
kind: autoupdate_config
metadata:
  name: autoupdate-config
spec:
  tools:
    # tools mode allows users to enable or disable client tool updates at the
    # cluster level. Disable client tool automatic updates only if self-managed
    # updates are in place.
    mode: enabled|disabled
```

See [Teleport Client Tool Automatic Updates](../upgrading/client-tools-autoupdate.mdx) for more details.

## Auto-update version

Allows cluster administrators to manage the version of client tools that must be installed after logging into the cluster.

```yaml
kind: autoupdate_version
metadata:
  name: autoupdate-version
spec:
  tools:
    # target_version is the semver version of client tools the cluster will advertise.
    target_version: X.Y.Z
```

See [Teleport Client Tool Automatic Updates](../upgrading/client-tools-autoupdate.mdx) for more details.

Commit message:

Stable UNIX users: docs (#51662)
* Stable user UID addition to the host user creation guide

* tctl stable-unix-users-ls docs

* CAP resource reference

* auth service reference

* Uncomment defaulted field in fileconf

* Clarify conditions for stable uids

docs/pages/reference/resources.mdx, after:

---
title: Teleport Resources
h1: Teleport Resource Reference
description: Reference documentation for Teleport resources
---

This reference guide lists dynamic resources you can manage with Teleport. For
more information on dynamic resources, see our guide to [Using Dynamic
Resources](../admin-guides/infrastructure-as-code/infrastructure-as-code.mdx).

Examples of applying dynamic resources with `tctl`:

```code
# List all connectors:
$ tctl get connectors

# Dump a SAML connector called "okta":
$ tctl get saml/okta

# Delete a SAML connector called "okta":
$ tctl rm saml/okta

# Delete an OIDC connector called "gworkspace":
$ tctl rm oidc/gworkspace

# Delete a github connector called "myteam":
$ tctl rm github/myteam

# Delete a local user called "admin":
$ tctl rm users/admin

# Show all devices:
$ tctl get devices

# Fetch a specific device:
$ tctl get devices/<asset-tag>

# Fetch the cluster auth preferences
$ tctl get cluster_auth_preference
```

<Admonition type="note">
  Although `tctl get connectors` will show you every connector, when working with an individual connector you must use the correct `kind`, such as `saml` or `oidc`. You can see each connector's `kind` at the top of its YAML output from `tctl get connectors`.
</Admonition>

## List of dynamic resources

Here's the list of resources currently exposed via [`tctl`](./cli/tctl.mdx):

| Resource Kind | Description |
| - | - |
| [user](#user) | A user record in the internal Teleport user DB. |
| [role](#role) | A role assumed by interactive and non-interactive users. |
| connector | Authentication connectors for [Single Sign-On](../admin-guides/access-controls/sso/sso.mdx) (SSO) for SAML, OIDC and GitHub. |
| node | A registered SSH node. The same record is displayed via `tctl nodes ls`. |
| windows_desktop | A registered Windows desktop. |
| cluster | A trusted cluster. See [here](../admin-guides/management/admin/trustedclusters.mdx) for more details on connecting clusters together. |
| [login_rule](#login-rules) | A Login Rule, see the [Login Rules guide](../admin-guides/access-controls/login-rules/login-rules.mdx) for more info. |
| [device](#device) | A Teleport Trusted Device, see the [Device Trust guide](../admin-guides/access-controls/device-trust/guide.mdx) for more info. |
| [ui_config](#ui-config) | Configuration for the Web UI served by the Proxy Service. |
| [vnet_config](#vnet-config) | Configuration for the cluster's VNet options. |
| [cluster_auth_preference](#cluster-auth-preferences) | Configuration for the cluster's auth preferences. |
| [database_object_import_rule](#database-object-import-rule) | Database object import rules. |
| [autoupdate_config](#auto-update-config) | Client tools auto-update configuration |
| [autoupdate_version](#auto-update-version) | Client tools auto-update target version configuration |

## User

Teleport supports interactive local users, non-interactive local users (bots)
and single-sign on users that are represented as a resource.

```yaml
kind: user
version: v2
metadata:
  name: joe
spec:
  # roles is a list of roles assigned to this user
  roles:
  - admin
  # status sets user temporarily locked in a Teleport system, for example
  # when users exceed predefined amount of failed login attempts
  status:
    is_locked: false
    lock_expires: 0001-01-01T00:00:00Z
    locked_time: 0001-01-01T00:00:00Z
  # traits are key, list of values pairs assigned to a user resource.
  # Traits can be used in role templates as variables.
  traits:
    logins:
    - joe
    - root
  # expires, if not empty, sets automatic expiry of the resource
  expires: 0001-01-01T00:00:00Z
  # created_by is a system property that tracks
  # identity of the author of this user resource.
  created_by:
    time: 0001-01-01T00:00:00Z
    user:
      name: builtin-Admin
```

## Role

Interactive and non-interactive users (bots) assume one or many roles.

Roles govern access to databases, SSH servers, Kubernetes clusters, web services and applications and Windows Desktops.

(!docs/pages/includes/role-spec.mdx!)

### Role versions

Versions 5, 6 and 7 of the Teleport role resource have different behaviors when
accessing Kubernetes resources.
{/*lint ignore messaging*/}
Roles not [granting Kubernetes access](../enroll-resources/kubernetes-access/introduction.mdx) are
equivalent in the three versions.

Roles v5 and v6 can only restrict actions on pods (e.g. executing in them).
Role v7 supports restricting all common resource kinds (
see [the `kubernetes_resource` documentation](../enroll-resources/kubernetes-access/controls.mdx#kubernetes_resources)
for a complete list).

When no `kubernetes_resource` is set:
- Roles v5 and v7 grant all access by default
- Roles v6 blocks pod execution by default, this was reverted by roles v7 to improve the user experience.

{/* This table is cursed. Our current docs engine doesn't support HTML tables
(due to SSR and the rehydration process). We have dto do everything inlined in
markdown. Some HTML character codes are used to render specific chars like {}
or to avoid line breaks in the middle fo the YAML. Spaces before br tags
are required.*/}

| Allow rule                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Role v5                                                                                                           | Role v6                                                                                                           | Role v7                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <pre>kubernetes_groups: <br/>  - "system:masters" <br/>kubernetes_labels: &#123;&#125; <br/>kubernetes_resources:&nbsp;[]<br/></pre>                                                                                                                                      | ❌ no access                                                                                                       | ❌ no access                                                                                                       | ❌ no access                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| <pre>kubernetes_groups: <br/>  - "system:masters" <br/>kubernetes_labels: <br/>  env: ["dev"] <br/>kubernetes_resources:&nbsp;[]<br/></pre>                                                                                                                               | ✅ full access to `dev` clusters                                                                                   | ❌ cannot exec in pods <br/> ✅ can access other <br/>resources like `secrets`                                      | ✅ full access to `dev` clusters                                                                                                                                                                       |
| <pre>kubernetes_groups: <br/>  - "system:masters" <br/>kubernetes_labels: <br/>  env: ["dev"] <br/>kubernetes_resources: <br/>  - name: "&ast;" <br/>    kind: pod <br/>    namespace: "foo"</pre>                                                                        | ✅ can exec in pods in `foo` <br/>✅ can access `secrets` in all namespaces. <br/>❌ cannot exec in other namespaces | ✅ can exec in pods in `foo` <br/>✅ can access `secrets` in all namespaces. <br/>❌ cannot exec in other namespaces | ✅ can exec in pods in `foo` <br/>❌ cannot access `secrets` in all namespaces <br/>❌ cannot exec in other namespaces                                                                                   |
| <pre>kubernetes_groups: <br/>  - "system:masters" <br/>kubernetes_labels: <br/>  env: ["dev"] <br/>kubernetes_resources: <br/>  - name: "&ast;" <br/>    kind: pod <br/>    namespace: "foo" <br/>  - name: "&ast;" <br/>    kind: secret <br/>    namespace: "foo"</pre> | ⚠️ not supported                                                                                                  | ⚠️ not supported                                                                                                  | ✅ can exec in pods in `foo` <br/>✅ can access `secrets` in `foo` <br/>❌ cannot exec in other namespaces <br/>❌ cannot access `secrets` in other namespaces <br/>❌ cannot access `configmaps` in `foo` |
| <pre>kubernetes_groups: <br/>  - "system:masters" <br/>kubernetes_labels: <br/>  env: ["dev"] <br/>kubernetes_resources: <br/>  - kind: "namespace" <br/>    name: "foo"</pre>                                                                                            | ⚠️ not supported                                                                                                  | ⚠️ not supported                                                                                                  | ✅ full access in namespace `foo` <br/>❌ cannot access other namespaces                                                                                                                                |


## Windows desktops

In most cases, Teleport will register `windows_desktop` resources automatically
based on static hosts in your configuration file or via LDAP-based discovery.

You can also use [dynamic
registration](../enroll-resources/desktop-access/dynamic-registration.mdx) using
`dynamic_windows_desktop` resources. This can be useful for managing inventories
of hosts that are not joined to an Active Directory domain.

There are a few important considerations to keep in mind when registering
desktops this way:

1. The desktop's `addr` can be a hostname or IP address, and should include
   the RDP port (typically 3389).
1. If you intend to log in to the desktop with local Windows users you must set
   `non_ad: true`. If you intend to log in with Active Directory users, leave
   `non_ad` unset (or false), and specify the Active Directory domain in the
   `domain` field.

## Login Rules

Login rules contain logic to transform SSO user traits during login.

(!docs/pages/includes/login-rule-spec.mdx!)

## Database object import rule

Database object import rule define the labels to be applied to database objects imported into Teleport.

See [Database Access Controls](../enroll-resources/database-access/rbac.mdx) for more details.

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/auto-user-provisioning/database-object-import-rule-spec.mdx!)

## Device

Device contains information identifying a trusted device.

(!docs/pages/includes/device-spec.mdx!)

## UI config

Global configuration options for the Web UI served by the Proxy Service. This resource is not set by default, which means a `tctl get ui` will result in an error if used before this resource has been set.

(!docs/pages/includes/ui-config-spec.mdx!)

## VNet config

Cluster-specific options VNet should use when setting up connections to resources from this cluster.

See [VNet](../enroll-resources/application-access/guides/vnet.mdx) for more details.

```yaml
kind: vnet_config
version: v1
metadata:
  name: vnet-config
spec:
  # The range to use when assigning IP addresses to resources.
  # It can be changed in case of conflicts with other software
  # deployed on end user devices. Defaults to "100.64.0.0/10".
  ipv4_cidr_range: "100.64.0.0/10"
  # Extra DNS zones that VNet should capture DNS queries for.
  # Set them if your TCP apps use custom public_addr.
  # Requires DNS TXT record to be set on the domains,
  # see the guide linked above. Empty by default.
  custom_dns_zones:
  - suffix: company.test
```

## Cluster maintenance config

Global configuration options for the agents enrolled into automatic updates.

(!docs/pages/includes/cluster-maintenance-config-spec.mdx!)

## Cluster auth preferences

Global cluster configuration options for authentication.

```yaml
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  # Sets the list of allowed second factors for the cluster.
  # Possible values: "otp", "webauthn", and "sso".
  # Defaults to ["otp"].
  second_factors: ["webauthn", "otp"]

  # second_factors is the list of allowed second factors for the cluster.
  # Possible values: "on", "otp" and "webauthn"
  # If "on" is set, all MFA protocols are supported.
  #
  # Prefer setting second_factors instead.
  #second_factor: "webauthn"

  # The name of the OIDC or SAML connector. if this is not set, the first connector in the backend is used.
  connector_name: ""

  # webauthn is the settings for server-side Web authentication support.
  webauthn:
    # rp_id is the ID of the Relying Party.
    # It should be set to the domain name of the Teleport installation.
    #
    # IMPORTANT: rp_id must never change in the lifetime of the cluster, because
    # it's recorded in the registration data on the WebAuthn device. If the
    # ri_id changes, all existing WebAuthn key registrations will become invalid
    # and all users who use WebAuthn as the second factor will need to
    # re-register.
    rp_id: teleport.example.com
    # Allow list of device attestation CAs in PEM format.
    # If present, only devices whose attestation certificates match the
    # certificates specified here may be registered (existing registrations are
    # unchanged).
    # If supplied in conjunction with `attestation_denied_cas`, then both
    # conditions need to be true for registration to be allowed (the device
    # MUST match an allowed CA and MUST NOT match a denied CA).
    # By default all devices are allowed.
    attestation_allowed_cas: []
    # Deny list of device attestation CAs in PEM format.
    # If present, only devices whose attestation certificates don't match the
    # certificates specified here may be registered (existing registrations are
    # unchanged).
    attestation_denied_cas: []

  # Enforce per-session MFA or PIV-hardware key restrictions on user login sessions.
  # Possible values: true, false, "hardware_key", "hardware_key_touch".
  # Defaults to false.
  require_session_mfa: false

  # Sets whether connections with expired client certificates will be disconnected.
  disconnect_expired_cert: false

  # Sets whether headless authentication is allowed.
  # Headless authentication requires WebAuthn.
  # Defaults to true if webauthn is configured.
  allow_headless: false

  # Sets whether local auth is enabled alongside any other authentication
  # type.
  allow_local_auth: true

  # Sets whether passwordless authentication is allowed.
  # Requires Webauthn to work.
  allow_passwordless: false

  # Sets the message of the day for the cluster.
  message_of_the_day: ""

  # idp is a set of options related to accessing IdPs within Teleport. Requires Teleport Enterprise
  idp:
    # options related to the Teleport SAML IdP.
    saml:
      # enables access to the Teleport SAML IdP.
      enabled: true

  # locking_mode is the cluster-wide locking mode default.
  # Possible values: "strict" or "best_effort"
  locking_mode: best_effort

  # default_session_ttl defines the default TTL (time to live) of certificates
  # issued to the users on this cluster.
  default_session_ttl: "12h"

  # The type of authentication to use for this cluster.
  # Possible values: "local", "oidc", "saml" and "github"
  type: local

  stable_unix_user_config:
    # If set to true, SSH instances will use the same UID for each given
    # username when automatically creating users.
    enabled: false

    # The range of UIDs (including both ends) used for automatic UID assignment.
    first_uid: 90000
    last_uid: 95000

version: v2
```

## Bot

Bot resources define a Machine ID Bot identity and its access.

Find out more on the
[Machine ID configuration reference](machine-id/configuration.mdx).

(!docs/pages/includes/machine-id/bot-spec.mdx!)

## Auto-update config

Configuration options for managed updates for Teleport client tools.

```yaml
kind: autoupdate_config
metadata:
  name: autoupdate-config
spec:
  tools:
    # tools mode allows users to enable or disable client tool updates at the
    # cluster level. Disable client tool automatic updates only if self-managed
    # updates are in place.
    mode: enabled|disabled
```

See [Teleport Client Tool Automatic Updates](../upgrading/client-tools-autoupdate.mdx) for more details.

## Auto-update version

Allows cluster administrators to manage the version of client tools that must be installed after logging into the cluster.

```yaml
kind: autoupdate_version
metadata:
  name: autoupdate-version
spec:
  tools:
    # target_version is the semver version of client tools the cluster will advertise.
    target_version: X.Y.Z
```

See [Teleport Client Tool Automatic Updates](../upgrading/client-tools-autoupdate.mdx) for more details.
