docs/pages/machine-id/guides/ansible.mdx, before:

---
title: Using Teleport Machine ID with Ansible
description: Using Teleport Machine ID with Ansible
---

In this guide, you will set up an Ansible playbook to run the OpenSSH client
with a configuration file that is automatically managed by Machine ID.

## Prerequisites

You will need the following tools to use Teleport with Ansible.

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- `ssh` OpenSSH tool

- `ansible` >= (=ansible.min_version=)

- Optional: [`jq`](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to process `JSON` output

- If you already have not done so, follow the
  [Machine ID Getting Started Guide](../getting-started.mdx) to create a bot
  user and start Machine ID.

- If you followed the above guide, note the `--destination-dir=/opt/machine-id`
  flag, which defines the directory where SSH certificates and OpenSSH configuration
  used by Ansible will be written.

  In particular, you will be using the `/opt/machine-id/ssh_config` file in your
  Ansible configuration to define how Ansible should connect to Teleport Nodes.

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/2. Configure Ansible

Create a folder named `ansible` where all Ansible files will be collected.

```code
$ mkdir -p ansible
$ cd ansible
```

Create a file called `ansible.cfg`. We will configure Ansible
to run the OpenSSH client with the configuration file generated
by Machine ID, `/opt/machine-id/ssh_config`.

```
[defaults]
host_key_checking = True
inventory=./hosts
remote_tmp=/tmp

[ssh_connection]
scp_if_ssh = True
ssh_args = -F /opt/machine-id/ssh_config
```

You can create an inventory file called `hosts` manually or use a script like the one
below to generate it from your environment. Note, `example.com` here is the
name of your Teleport cluster.

```code
$ # Replace ".example.com" below with the name of your cluster.
$ tsh ls --format=json | jq -r '.[].spec.hostname + ".example.com"' > hosts
```

<Details title="Not seeing Nodes?">

(!docs/pages/includes/node-logins.mdx!)

</Details>

## Step 2/2. Run a playbook

Finally, let's create a simple Ansible playbook, `playbook.yaml`.

The playbook below runs `hostname` on all hosts. Make sure to set the
`remote_user` parameter to a valid SSH username that works with the target host
and is allowed by Teleport RBAC.

```yaml
- hosts: all
  remote_user: ubuntu
  tasks:
    - name: "hostname"
      command: "hostname"
```

From the folder `ansible`, run the Ansible playbook:

```code
$ ansible-playbook playbook.yaml

# PLAY [all] *****************************************************************************************************************************************
# TASK [Gathering Facts] *****************************************************************************************************************************
#
# ok: [terminal]
#
# TASK [hostname] ************************************************************************************************************************************
# changed: [terminal]
#
# PLAY RECAP *****************************************************************************************************************************************
# terminal                   : ok=2    changed=1    unreachable=0    failed=0    skipped=0    rescued=0    ignored=0
```

You are all set. You have provided your machine with short-lived certificates
tied to a machine identity that can be rotated, audited, and controlled with
all the familiar Teleport access controls.

## Troubleshooting

In case if Ansible cannot connect, you may see error like this one:

```txt
example.host | UNREACHABLE! => {
    "changed": false,
    "msg": "Failed to connect to the host via ssh: ssh: Could not resolve hostname node-name: Name or service not known",
    "unreachable": true
}
```

You can examine and tweak patterns matching the inventory hosts in `ssh_config`.

Try the SSH connection using `ssh_config` with verbose mode to inspect the error:

```code
$ ssh -vvv -F /opt/machine-id/ssh_config root@node-name.example.com
```

If `ssh` works, try running the playbook with verbose mode on:

```code
$ ansible-playbook -vvv playbook.yaml
```

Commit message:

Edit playbook user in the Ansible guide (#28791)
Closes #16612

The guide names the Machine ID getting started guide as a prerequisite,
and the getting started guide shows how to authorize Machine ID to log
in as `root`.

This change edits the playbook example in the Ansible guide to use
`root`, and uses a `Var` component in case the user configured Machine
ID to have another login instead.

docs/pages/machine-id/guides/ansible.mdx, after:

---
title: Using Teleport Machine ID with Ansible
description: Using Teleport Machine ID with Ansible
---

In this guide, you will set up an Ansible playbook to run the OpenSSH client
with a configuration file that is automatically managed by Machine ID.

## Prerequisites

You will need the following tools to use Teleport with Ansible.

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- `ssh` OpenSSH tool

- `ansible` >= (=ansible.min_version=)

- Optional: [`jq`](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to process `JSON` output

- If you already have not done so, follow the
  [Machine ID Getting Started Guide](../getting-started.mdx) to create a bot
  user and start Machine ID.

- If you followed the above guide, note the `--destination-dir=/opt/machine-id`
  flag, which defines the directory where SSH certificates and OpenSSH configuration
  used by Ansible will be written.

  In particular, you will be using the `/opt/machine-id/ssh_config` file in your
  Ansible configuration to define how Ansible should connect to Teleport Nodes.

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/2. Configure Ansible

Create a folder named `ansible` where all Ansible files will be collected.

```code
$ mkdir -p ansible
$ cd ansible
```

Create a file called `ansible.cfg`. We will configure Ansible
to run the OpenSSH client with the configuration file generated
by Machine ID, `/opt/machine-id/ssh_config`.

```
[defaults]
host_key_checking = True
inventory=./hosts
remote_tmp=/tmp

[ssh_connection]
scp_if_ssh = True
ssh_args = -F /opt/machine-id/ssh_config
```

You can create an inventory file called `hosts` manually or use a script like the one
below to generate it from your environment. Note, `example.com` here is the
name of your Teleport cluster.

```code
$ # Replace ".example.com" below with the name of your cluster.
$ tsh ls --format=json | jq -r '.[].spec.hostname + ".example.com"' > hosts
```

<Details title="Not seeing Nodes?">

(!docs/pages/includes/node-logins.mdx!)

</Details>

## Step 2/2. Run a playbook

Finally, let's create a simple Ansible playbook, `playbook.yaml`.

The playbook below runs `hostname` on all hosts. Make sure to set the
`remote_user` parameter to a valid SSH username that works with the target host
and is allowed by Teleport RBAC. If you followed the [Machine ID getting started
guide](../getting-started.mdx), this user will be `root`. Assign <Var
name="root" /> to the username.

```var
- hosts: all
  remote_user: <Var name="root" />
  tasks:
    - name: "hostname"
      command: "hostname"
```

From the folder `ansible`, run the Ansible playbook:

```code
$ ansible-playbook playbook.yaml

# PLAY [all] *****************************************************************************************************************************************
# TASK [Gathering Facts] *****************************************************************************************************************************
#
# ok: [terminal]
#
# TASK [hostname] ************************************************************************************************************************************
# changed: [terminal]
#
# PLAY RECAP *****************************************************************************************************************************************
# terminal                   : ok=2    changed=1    unreachable=0    failed=0    skipped=0    rescued=0    ignored=0
```

You are all set. You have provided your machine with short-lived certificates
tied to a machine identity that can be rotated, audited, and controlled with
all the familiar Teleport access controls.

## Troubleshooting

In case if Ansible cannot connect, you may see error like this one:

```txt
example.host | UNREACHABLE! => {
    "changed": false,
    "msg": "Failed to connect to the host via ssh: ssh: Could not resolve hostname node-name: Name or service not known",
    "unreachable": true
}
```

You can examine and tweak patterns matching the inventory hosts in `ssh_config`.

Try the SSH connection using `ssh_config` with verbose mode to inspect the error:

```code
$ ssh -vvv -F /opt/machine-id/ssh_config root@node-name.example.com
```

If `ssh` works, try running the playbook with verbose mode on:

```code
$ ansible-playbook -vvv playbook.yaml
```
