docs/pages/machine-id/guides/databases.mdx, before:

---
title: Machine ID with Databases
description: Protecting your databases with Machine ID
---

(!docs/pages/includes/machine-id/v2-config-warning.mdx!)

In this guide, we will demonstrate how to use Machine ID to access a database
protected by Teleport from a custom application.

With Machine ID, Teleport issues short-lived certificates, tied to a machine identity,
that can be rotated, audited, and managed with the same access controls that 
Teleport provides for human users.

<Figure align="left" bordered caption="Machine ID and Database Access Deployment">
![Machine ID and Database Access Deployment](../../../img/machine-id/machine-id-database-access.svg)
</Figure>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- If you have not already put your database behind the Teleport Database Service,
  follow the [database access getting started guide](../../database-access/getting-started.mdx).
  The Teleport Database Service supports databases like PostgreSQL, MongoDB,
  Redis, and much more. See our [database access
  guides](../../database-access/guides.mdx) for a complete list.
- If you have not already set up Machine ID, follow the [Machine ID getting
  started guide](../getting-started.mdx) to familiarize yourself with Machine ID.
  You'll need `tctl` access to initially configure the bot.
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)
- Ensure both the `tbot` and `tsh` executables are available on your
  application host. See [Installation](../../installation.mdx) for details.

## Step 1/3. Create a Machine ID bot and assign permissions

In the example below, you will create a bot user named `app` and assign
this bot user the `machine-id-db` role.

First, create a role that Machine ID can use to access your database:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: machine-id-db
spec:
  allow:
    db_labels:
      '*': '*'
    db_names: [example]
    db_users: [alice]
    rules:
      - resources: [db_server, db]
        verbs: [read, list]
```

This role allows Machine ID bots to do two things:
 1. Access the database `example` on any database server (due to the `'*': '*'`
    label selector) as the user `alice`. You may restrict access to the bot
    using a more specific label selector; see the [Database Access RBAC 
    guide](../../database-access/rbac.mdx) for more info.
 2. Discover information about databases in Teleport.

Write this to `role.yaml` and run the following to create the role in Teleport:

```code
$ tctl create -f role.yaml
```

With the role created, create a new bot and allow it to assume the new role.

<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
On your client machine, log in to Teleport using `tsh` before using `tctl` to
create the bot:

```code
$ tctl bots add app --roles=machine-id-db
```
</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["oss","enterprise"]}>
Connect to the Teleport Auth Server and use `tctl` to create the bot:

```code
$ tctl bots add app --roles=machine-id-db
```
</ScopedBlock>

## Step 2/3. Configure and start Machine ID

Next, we'll run Machine ID alongside our database client app to begin fetching
credentials.

Start by creating a configuration file for Machine ID at `/etc/tbot.yaml`:

```yaml
version: v2
auth_server: "example.teleport.sh:443"
onboarding:
  join_method: "token"
  token: "00000000000000000000000000000000"
  ca_pins:
  - "sha256:1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111"
storage:
  type: directory
  path: /var/lib/teleport/bot
outputs:
  - type: database
    destination:
      type: directory
      path: /opt/machine-id
    # Specify the details of the database you wish to connect to.
    service: example-server
    username: alice
    database: example
    # Specify a format to use for the output credentials. For most databases,
    # this configuration field can be omitted. See the table below for the
    # databases that require a value to be specified here.
    # format: mongo

```

The `format` field in the database output controls the format of the generated
credentials. This setting allows the credentials to work with database clients that require a
specific format. When this field is not specified, a sensible default option is
used that is compatible with most clients. The full list of supported `format`
options is below:

| Client        | `format`      | Description                          |
|---------------|---------------|--------------------------------------|
| Default       | Unspecified   | Provides a certificate in `tlscert`, a private key in `key` and the CA in `teleport-database-ca.crt`. This is compatible with most clients. |
| MongoDB       | `mongo`       | Provides `mongo.crt` and `mongo.cas`. |
| CockroachDB   | `cockroach`   | Provides `cockroach/node.key`, `cockroach/node.crt`, and `cockroach/ca.crt`. |
| Generic TLS   | `tls`         | Provides `tls.key`, `tls.crt`, and `tls.cas` for generic clients that require specific file extensions. |

Be sure to configure the `token` and `ca_pins` fields to match the output from
`tctl bots add ...`.

Machine ID also allows you to use Linux ACLs to control access to certificates
on disk. You will use this to ensure only your application has access to the
short-lived certificates Machine ID uses.

We'll work with the assumption you will be running Machine ID as the Linux user
`teleport` and your application as the Linux user `app`. Create and initialize
the output destination by running this `tbot init` command either as `root`
or as the `teleport` user:

```code
$ tbot init \
    -c /etc/tbot.yaml \
    --init-dir=/opt/machine-id \
    --bot-user=teleport \
    --owner=teleport:teleport \
    --reader-user=app
```

(!docs/pages/includes/machine-id/machine-id-init-bot-data.mdx!)

<Notice type="note">
Be sure to re-run `tbot init ...` as shown here if config templates are added
or removed from `tbot.yaml`. You may run into permissions errors if `tbot init`
is not run for new files.
</Notice>

Next, you will use systemd to run Machine ID in the background on your
application node. Create a systemd.unit file at
`/etc/systemd/system/machine-id.service`:

```systemd
[Unit]
Description=Teleport Machine ID Service
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=teleport
Group=teleport
Restart=on-failure
Environment="TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY=1"
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/tbot start -c /etc/tbot.yaml
ExecReload=/bin/kill -HUP $MAINPID
PIDFile=/run/machine-id.pid
LimitNOFILE=524288

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

`TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY` enables the submission of anonymous usage
telemetry. This helps us shape the future development of `tbot`. You can disable
this by omitting this.

Additionally, we'll need to create a secondary service to manage the database
proxy. Create another unit file at `/etc/systemd/system/machine-id-proxy.service`:

```systemd
[Unit]
Description=Teleport Machine ID Proxy Service
After=network.target
Requires=machine-id.service

[Service]
Type=simple
User=teleport
Group=teleport
Restart=on-failure
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/tbot -c /etc/tbot.yaml proxy --proxy=proxy.example.com:3080 --destination-dir=/opt/machine-id db --port=12345 example-server
ExecReload=/bin/kill -HUP $MAINPID
PIDFile=/run/machine-id-proxy.pid
LimitNOFILE=8192

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

This will start a local proxy on port `12345` applications can use to connect
to the `example-server` database server. Be sure to customize the `tbot`
parameters as necessary for your local setup.

Finally, run the following commands to start Machine ID:

```code
$ sudo systemctl enable machine-id machine-id-proxy
$ sudo systemctl start machine-id machine-id-proxy
$ sudo systemctl status machine-id machine-id-proxy
```

## Step 3/3. Update and run your application

In the default proxy mode, database clients must also be configured to use
`tbot`'s generated TLS certificates. This ensures no other users of the system
can access the database via the local proxy, and ensures the connection between
your database client and server is never unencrypted, even over localhost.

<Admonition type="note" title="TLS Configuration Note">
If desired, you can add the `--tunnel` flag to the `tbot proxy db ...` command in the `machine-id-proxy.service` systemd unit file to
authenticate automatically at the proxy level, however this will decrease
security as all users of the system will be able to connect to the database
without any additional authentication.
</Admonition>

Once the necessary credentials for your database are ready to use, refer to
these sample Go programs to test connectivity to your database.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Self-Hosted PostgreSQL">
  ```go
  (!docs/pages/includes/machine-id/postgresql/postgresql.go!)
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Self-Hosted MongoDB">
  ```go
  (!docs/pages/includes/machine-id/mongodb/mongodb.go!)
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

You are all set. You have provided your application with short-lived
certificates tied to a machine identity that can access your database, be
rotated, and audited, all while being controlled with all the familiar Teleport
access controls.

## Next steps

[More information about `TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY`.](../reference/telemetry.mdx)

Commit message:

Add brief description of outputs field

docs/pages/machine-id/guides/databases.mdx, after:

---
title: Machine ID with Databases
description: Protecting your databases with Machine ID
---

(!docs/pages/includes/machine-id/v2-config-warning.mdx!)

In this guide, we will demonstrate how to use Machine ID to access a database
protected by Teleport from a custom application.

With Machine ID, Teleport issues short-lived certificates, tied to a machine identity,
that can be rotated, audited, and managed with the same access controls that 
Teleport provides for human users.

<Figure align="left" bordered caption="Machine ID and Database Access Deployment">
![Machine ID and Database Access Deployment](../../../img/machine-id/machine-id-database-access.svg)
</Figure>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- If you have not already put your database behind the Teleport Database Service,
  follow the [database access getting started guide](../../database-access/getting-started.mdx).
  The Teleport Database Service supports databases like PostgreSQL, MongoDB,
  Redis, and much more. See our [database access
  guides](../../database-access/guides.mdx) for a complete list.
- If you have not already set up Machine ID, follow the [Machine ID getting
  started guide](../getting-started.mdx) to familiarize yourself with Machine ID.
  You'll need `tctl` access to initially configure the bot.
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)
- Ensure both the `tbot` and `tsh` executables are available on your
  application host. See [Installation](../../installation.mdx) for details.

## Step 1/3. Create a Machine ID bot and assign permissions

In the example below, you will create a bot user named `app` and assign
this bot user the `machine-id-db` role.

First, create a role that Machine ID can use to access your database:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: machine-id-db
spec:
  allow:
    db_labels:
      '*': '*'
    db_names: [example]
    db_users: [alice]
    rules:
      - resources: [db_server, db]
        verbs: [read, list]
```

This role allows Machine ID bots to do two things:
 1. Access the database `example` on any database server (due to the `'*': '*'`
    label selector) as the user `alice`. You may restrict access to the bot
    using a more specific label selector; see the [Database Access RBAC 
    guide](../../database-access/rbac.mdx) for more info.
 2. Discover information about databases in Teleport.

Write this to `role.yaml` and run the following to create the role in Teleport:

```code
$ tctl create -f role.yaml
```

With the role created, create a new bot and allow it to assume the new role.

<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
On your client machine, log in to Teleport using `tsh` before using `tctl` to
create the bot:

```code
$ tctl bots add app --roles=machine-id-db
```
</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["oss","enterprise"]}>
Connect to the Teleport Auth Server and use `tctl` to create the bot:

```code
$ tctl bots add app --roles=machine-id-db
```
</ScopedBlock>

## Step 2/3. Configure and start Machine ID

Next, we'll run Machine ID alongside our database client app to begin fetching
credentials.

Start by creating a configuration file for Machine ID at `/etc/tbot.yaml`:

```yaml
version: v2
auth_server: "example.teleport.sh:443"
onboarding:
  join_method: "token"
  token: "00000000000000000000000000000000"
  ca_pins:
  - "sha256:1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111"
storage:
  type: directory
  path: /var/lib/teleport/bot
outputs:
  - type: database
    destination:
      type: directory
      path: /opt/machine-id
    # Specify the details of the database you wish to connect to.
    service: example-server
    username: alice
    database: example
    # Specify a format to use for the output credentials. For most databases,
    # this configuration field can be omitted. See the table below for the
    # databases that require a value to be specified here.
    # format: mongo

```

The `outputs` field controls the what certificates `tbot` will produce when it
runs and where these certificates should be written.

The `format` field in the database output controls the format of the generated
credentials. This setting allows the credentials to work with database clients
that require a specific format. When this field is not specified, a sensible
default option is used that is compatible with most clients. The full list of
supported `format` options is below:

| Client        | `format`      | Description                          |
|---------------|---------------|--------------------------------------|
| Default       | Unspecified   | Provides a certificate in `tlscert`, a private key in `key` and the CA in `teleport-database-ca.crt`. This is compatible with most clients. |
| MongoDB       | `mongo`       | Provides `mongo.crt` and `mongo.cas`. |
| CockroachDB   | `cockroach`   | Provides `cockroach/node.key`, `cockroach/node.crt`, and `cockroach/ca.crt`. |
| Generic TLS   | `tls`         | Provides `tls.key`, `tls.crt`, and `tls.cas` for generic clients that require specific file extensions. |

Be sure to configure the `token` and `ca_pins` fields to match the output from
`tctl bots add ...`.

Machine ID also allows you to use Linux ACLs to control access to certificates
on disk. You will use this to ensure only your application has access to the
short-lived certificates Machine ID uses.

We'll work with the assumption you will be running Machine ID as the Linux user
`teleport` and your application as the Linux user `app`. Create and initialize
the output destination by running this `tbot init` command either as `root`
or as the `teleport` user:

```code
$ tbot init \
    -c /etc/tbot.yaml \
    --init-dir=/opt/machine-id \
    --bot-user=teleport \
    --owner=teleport:teleport \
    --reader-user=app
```

(!docs/pages/includes/machine-id/machine-id-init-bot-data.mdx!)

<Notice type="note">
Be sure to re-run `tbot init ...` as shown here if config templates are added
or removed from `tbot.yaml`. You may run into permissions errors if `tbot init`
is not run for new files.
</Notice>

Next, you will use systemd to run Machine ID in the background on your
application node. Create a systemd.unit file at
`/etc/systemd/system/machine-id.service`:

```systemd
[Unit]
Description=Teleport Machine ID Service
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=teleport
Group=teleport
Restart=on-failure
Environment="TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY=1"
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/tbot start -c /etc/tbot.yaml
ExecReload=/bin/kill -HUP $MAINPID
PIDFile=/run/machine-id.pid
LimitNOFILE=524288

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

`TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY` enables the submission of anonymous usage
telemetry. This helps us shape the future development of `tbot`. You can disable
this by omitting this.

Additionally, we'll need to create a secondary service to manage the database
proxy. Create another unit file at `/etc/systemd/system/machine-id-proxy.service`:

```systemd
[Unit]
Description=Teleport Machine ID Proxy Service
After=network.target
Requires=machine-id.service

[Service]
Type=simple
User=teleport
Group=teleport
Restart=on-failure
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/tbot -c /etc/tbot.yaml proxy --proxy=proxy.example.com:3080 --destination-dir=/opt/machine-id db --port=12345 example-server
ExecReload=/bin/kill -HUP $MAINPID
PIDFile=/run/machine-id-proxy.pid
LimitNOFILE=8192

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

This will start a local proxy on port `12345` applications can use to connect
to the `example-server` database server. Be sure to customize the `tbot`
parameters as necessary for your local setup.

Finally, run the following commands to start Machine ID:

```code
$ sudo systemctl enable machine-id machine-id-proxy
$ sudo systemctl start machine-id machine-id-proxy
$ sudo systemctl status machine-id machine-id-proxy
```

## Step 3/3. Update and run your application

In the default proxy mode, database clients must also be configured to use
`tbot`'s generated TLS certificates. This ensures no other users of the system
can access the database via the local proxy, and ensures the connection between
your database client and server is never unencrypted, even over localhost.

<Admonition type="note" title="TLS Configuration Note">
If desired, you can add the `--tunnel` flag to the `tbot proxy db ...` command in the `machine-id-proxy.service` systemd unit file to
authenticate automatically at the proxy level, however this will decrease
security as all users of the system will be able to connect to the database
without any additional authentication.
</Admonition>

Once the necessary credentials for your database are ready to use, refer to
these sample Go programs to test connectivity to your database.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Self-Hosted PostgreSQL">
  ```go
  (!docs/pages/includes/machine-id/postgresql/postgresql.go!)
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Self-Hosted MongoDB">
  ```go
  (!docs/pages/includes/machine-id/mongodb/mongodb.go!)
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

You are all set. You have provided your application with short-lived
certificates tied to a machine identity that can access your database, be
rotated, and audited, all while being controlled with all the familiar Teleport
access controls.

## Next steps

[More information about `TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY`.](../reference/telemetry.mdx)
