docs/pages/machine-id/guides/host-certificate.mdx, before:

---
title: Generating Short-Lived Host Certificates with Machine ID
description: Issuing Host Certificates with Machine ID for OpenSSH servers.
---

(!docs/pages/includes/machine-id/v2-config-warning.mdx!)

Host certificates are generally created on Teleport for access to OpenSSH servers that can not otherwise join a Teleport cluster.
While long-lived certificates may be applied for this purpose, short-lived and regularly rotated host certificates generated
through Teleport help to provide a number of security benefits over their long-lived counterparts. Regular certificate rotation reduces risk by ensuring that any potentially stolen
certificates are usable for a shorter period of time. Additionally, when coupled with Teleport's [RBAC](../../access-controls/guides/role-templates.mdx)
support and host certificate **Principals** and **Predicates**, you can apply limitations to both the process of creating host certificates,
as well as the host certificates themselves.

In this guide, you will learn how to create host certificates through Machine ID for OpenSSH servers, allowing for the benefits of host certificates with OpenSSH nodes,
and reducing risk by ensuring that short-lived certificates adhering to the principle of least privilege can be successfully applied to Teleport clusters.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

(!/docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

- A Linux based host that can support Machine ID. This "Machine ID Host" is the host that will be used to create Host Certificates using `tbot`.
  This host should additionally have OpenSSH server `sshd` version 6.9 or above running. The SSH port on this host must be open to traffic from the Teleport Proxy Service host.

  ```code
  $ ssh -V
  ```

## Step 1/5. Download and install Teleport

(!/docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

Next, log in to your cluster from your local machine using `tsh` to ensure that your device will be able to interact with the cluster:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=myteleportcluster.com --user=teleport-username
```

## Step 2/5. Create a role to issue `tbot` certificates

In order to create certificates `tbot` requires a `role` that provides the necessary permissions. When we apply a role to a tbot user
in this case, we restrict a bot user to only create host certificates.

Teleport roles can additionally limit the creation of host certificates to a desired **principal**.
For example, normally when creating an SSH host certificate a `principal` represents a user or host that the certificate is explicitly applied to.

By checking that a domain name matches the `principal` on a host certificate in the example configuration we use in this guide, access can be limited only to the desired server or servers.
On Teleport, a **predicate** should be applied to a `principal` to further define the scope of permissions applied to the `principal`.

By using the format of `where: 'predicate(host_cert.principals, "domain.name")'`, a Teleport user can create a role that will only be able to able to
create host certificates with the designated principal. A list of supported predicates, their behavior, and example configurations are listed below:

| **Predicate** | **Behavior** | **Example** |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| `all_equal` | All requested principals must be equal to the set string. If the set string is `foo.example.com`, host certificates limit access only to `foo.example.com`. | `all_equal(host_cert.principals, "foo.example.com")` |
| `all_end_with` |  All requested principals must end with the set string. If the set string is `.example.com`, host certificates limit access only to `*.example.com`. | `all_end_with(host_cert.principals, ".example.com")` |
| `is_subset` | All requested principals must be contained in the listed set. | `is_subset(host_cert.principals, "foo.example.com", "bar.example.com")` |

In the case of an example role for use within this guide, use a text editor of your choice from your local administrative device with `tsh` access to create a role YAML named `tbotrole.yaml` with the following
 configuration options, replacing `nodename.my.domain.com` with the domain name associated with your OpenSSH server:

```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: hostcert-bot
version: v5
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
      - resources:
          - host_cert
        verbs:
          - create
        where: 'is_subset(host_cert.principals, "nodename.my.domain.com")'
```

Once complete, create your role to apply to the `tbot` configuration in the next step:

```code
$ tctl create tbotrole.yaml
```

## Step 3/5 Create Your `tbot` Configuration

Before you create a bot user, you need to determine which role(s) you want to
assign to it. You can use the `tctl` command below from your local machine with `tsh` access to examine what roles exist
on your system:

```code
$ tctl get roles --format=text
```

You will see something like the output below on a fresh install of Teleport with the
preset roles and the addition of the `hostcert-bot` role created previously—your own cluster may have different roles. In this example,
you want to give the bot the `hostcert-bot` role to allow the bot to generate host certificates.

```
Role    Allowed to login as                           Node Labels Access to resources
------- --------------------------------------------- ----------- ----------------------------------------
access  {{internal.logins}}                           <all nodes> event:list,read,session:read,list
auditor no-login-6566121f-b602-47f1-a118-c9c618ee5aec             session:list,read,event:list,read
editor
hostcert-bot                                                      host_cert:create                               
```

Your Machine ID host can now join the Teleport Cluster using a number of supported methods. This guide will highlight both the `token` and the IAM method which uses identity tokens bound to an AWS account.
Note that the following commands may be entered on any device with `tctl` access to the cluster.

While any role with permissions for creating host certificates will work, this guide will make use of the `hostcert-bot` role created previously to ensure that the configuration adheres to the principle of least privilege.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Token-based Joining">

  ```code
  $ tctl bots add robot --roles=hostcert-bot
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="IAM Method">
  First, create an IAM method token that specifies the AWS account from which
  the bot can join. Create the below file as `iam-token.yaml`:

  ```
  kind: token
  version: v2
  metadata:
    # The token name is not a secret because instances must prove that they are
    # running in your AWS account to use this token.
    name: iam-token
  spec:
    # Only allow bots to join using this token.
    roles: [Bot]

    # Set the join method to be IAM.
    join_method: iam

    # Define the name of the bot that will be allowed to use this token.
    bot_name: robot

    allow:
    # Restrict the AWS account and (optionally) ARN that can use this token.
    # This information can be obtained from running the
    # "aws sts get-caller-identity" command from the CLI.
    - aws_account: "111111111111"
      aws_arn: "arn:aws:sts::111111111111:assumed-role/teleport-bot-role/i-*"
  ```

  With the `iam-token-yaml` file created, enter the following command:

  ```
  $ tctl create -f iam-token.yaml
  ```

  Next, create the bot user.

  ```
  $ tctl bots add robot --token=iam-token --roles=hostcert-bot
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Generating a configuration file

Machine ID may now be configured using the `tbot configure` command on the Machine ID host.

First, create a basic configuration file using the following parameters:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Token-based Joining">
  ```code
  $ tbot configure \
     --data-dir=/var/lib/teleport/bot \
     --token=(=presets.tokens.first=) \
     --join-method=token \
     --certificate-ttl=1h0m0s \
     --ca-pin=(=presets.ca_pin=) \
     --auth-server=example.teleport.sh:443
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="IAM method">
  ```code
  $ tbot configure \
     --data-dir=/var/lib/teleport/bot \
     --token=iam-token \
     --join-method=iam \
     --certificate-ttl=1h0m0s \
     --ca-pin=(=presets.ca_pin=) \
     --auth-server=example.teleport.sh:443
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Replace the following fields with values from your own cluster:

- `token` is the token output by the `tctl bots add` command or the name of your IAM method token.
- `ca-pin` is the CA Pin for your Teleport cluster, and is output by the `tctl bots add` command.
- `data-dir` is where Machine ID writes its private data, including its own short-lived renewable certificates. These should not be used by applications and tools.
- `certificate-ttl` is the option that will determine the time until expiration for any `tbot` issued certificates, including host certificates. The default TTL is for one hour, meaning that all generated certificates will expire after one hour's time.
- `auth-server` is the address of your Teleport Proxy or Teleport Cloud tenant, for example `tele.example.com:443`.

Using a text editor of your choice, write the output generated by the `tbot configure` command to a configuration YAML file. In this example we'll be using `tbot.yaml`.

### Configuring the output

Once complete, the Machine ID host configuration will still require an output to be configured within the configuration file. The output specifies the destination where Machine ID will write certificates
which can be used by application and tools to start Machine ID. In the configuration yaml `tbot.yaml`, this configuration will additionally be used to designate the principal,
in this case the domain name that we'll be applying to the `tbot` configuration to access a Node.
To update the `tbot.yaml` configuration file, you can add `ssh_host` output configuration settings similar to the following, replacing the `principals` setting with your own required domain name:

```
outputs:
  - type: ssh_host
    destination:
      type: directory
      path: /opt/machine-id
    principals: [nodename.my.domain.com]
```

Once completed, your `tbot.yaml` configuration should resemble the following:

```
version: v2
onboarding:
  token: "1234abcd5678efgh9"
  ca_path: ""
  ca_pins:
  - sha256:1234abcd5678efgh910ijklmnop
  join_method: token
storage:
  type: directory
  path: /var/lib/teleport/bot
  symlinks: secure
  acls: try
outputs:
  - type: ssh_host
    destination:
      type: directory
      path: /opt/machine-id
    principals: [nodename.my.domain.com]
debug: false
auth_server: example.teleport.sh:443
certificate_ttl: 1h0m0s
renewal_interval: 20m0s
oneshot: false
```

Note the `renewal_interval` field, which will determine the cadence in which new certificates will be generated. Machine ID uses a default of 20 minutes for the `renewal_interval`, however this field may be adjusted as needed.

## Step 4/5 Start Machine ID and create a host certificate

Using your configuration file, the `tbot start` command will start running Machine ID on your Machine ID host in a loop,
writing renewable certificates to `/var/lib/teleport/bot` according to your configuration, and the short-lived certificates including the host certificate your bot will use to `/opt/machine-id`.

In a production environment you will want to run Machine ID in the background using a service manager like systemd. However, in this guide you will run it in the foreground to better understand how it works.

```code
$ export TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY=1
$ tbot start -c tbot.yaml
```

`TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY` enables the submission of anonymous usage
telemetry. This helps us shape the future development of `tbot`. You can disable
this by omitting this.

Now that Machine ID has successfully started, let's investigate the /opt/machine-id directory to see what was written to disk.

```code
$ ls -1 /opt/machine-id
identity
key
key-cert.pub
key.pub
known_hosts
ssh_config
ssh_host
ssh_host-cert.pub
ssh_host-user-ca.pub
teleport-database-ca.crt
teleport-host-ca.crt
teleport-user-ca.crt
tlscert
```

Included in the output is the host certificate, private key, and user CA file Machine ID will have generated. The `ssh_host-cert.pub` file is the public host certificate, the `ssh_host` file
is a private key file bound to the certificate, and the `ssh_host-user-ca.pub` file is the public user CA file. To confirm that the outputted files have been created correctly,
view the public host certificate's contents by entering the following command:

```code
$ sudo ssh-keygen -L -f /opt/machine-id/key-cert.pub
```

The contents of the public certificate will appear, and will contain a `principals` field which will contain the `nodename.my.domain.com` domain entered in a previous step.
Your output will resemble the following:

```
        Type: ssh-rsa-cert-v01@openssh.com host certificate
        Public key: RSA-CERT SHA256:abcde123efghijk567lmnop
        Signing CA: RSA SHA256:abcde123efghijk567lmnop (using rsa-sha2-512)
        Key ID: ""
        Serial: 0
        Valid: from 2022-09-30T13:16:36 to 2022-09-30T17:17:36
        Principals:
                nodename.my.domain.com
        Critical Options: (none)
        Extensions:
                x-teleport-authority UNKNOWN OPTION (len 55)
                x-teleport-role UNKNOWN OPTION (len 8)
```

## Step 5/5 Configuring SSHD and connecting to the Teleport Cluster

In order to ensure that the Machine ID host is able to authorize and authenticate itself to the cluster using `sshd`, `sshd` must now be configured to
use the generated certificate files.

Using a text editor of your choice, open the `sshd` configuration file, usually found at `/etc/ssh/sshd_config`, and add the following lines:

```ini
## Path to the private Key File affiliated with the host certificate.
HostKey /opt/machine-id/ssh_host

## Ensures that the OpenSSH server is offering the generated public host certificate when connections are attempted.
HostCertificate /opt/machine-id/ssh_host-cert.pub

## Ensures that the server will trust certificates signed by the remote CA
TrustedUserCAKeys /opt/machine-id/ssh_host-user-ca.pub
```

Once saved, restart `sshd` to apply the new configuration:

```code
$ systemctl restart sshd
```

The Machine ID host is now fully configured to accept connections from a `tsh` user.
To confirm this, enter the following command from your local machine logged into the cluster using `tsh`:

```code
$ tsh ssh -p 22 root@nodename.my.domain.com
```

The connection should successfully complete without the need to manually enter any additional credentials.

## Next steps

Now that host certificates have been created with Teleport, they can be applied to OpenSSH configurations as needed. For more information regarding the next steps
to connect to OpenSSH with Teleport, see the following documentation:

- [Using Teleport With OpenSSH](../../server-access/guides/openssh.mdx)
- [Using SSH Host Certificates](https://goteleport.com/blog/how-to-ssh-properly/)
- [Machine ID Configuration Reference](../reference/configuration.mdx)
- [Joining Nodes using the IAM method](../../management/join-services-to-your-cluster/aws-ec2.mdx)

[More information about `TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY`.](../reference/telemetry.mdx)

Commit message:

Fix up host certificate guide

docs/pages/machine-id/guides/host-certificate.mdx, after:

---
title: Generating Short-Lived Host Certificates with Machine ID
description: Issuing Host Certificates with Machine ID for OpenSSH servers.
---

(!docs/pages/includes/machine-id/v2-config-warning.mdx!)

Host certificates are generally created on Teleport for access to OpenSSH servers that can not otherwise join a Teleport cluster.
While long-lived certificates may be applied for this purpose, short-lived and regularly rotated host certificates generated
through Teleport help to provide a number of security benefits over their long-lived counterparts. Regular certificate rotation reduces risk by ensuring that any potentially stolen
certificates are usable for a shorter period of time. Additionally, when coupled with Teleport's [RBAC](../../access-controls/guides/role-templates.mdx)
support and host certificate **Principals** and **Predicates**, you can apply limitations to both the process of creating host certificates,
as well as the host certificates themselves.

In this guide, you will learn how to create host certificates through Machine ID for OpenSSH servers, allowing for the benefits of host certificates with OpenSSH nodes,
and reducing risk by ensuring that short-lived certificates adhering to the principle of least privilege can be successfully applied to Teleport clusters.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

(!/docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

- A Linux based host that can support Machine ID. This "Machine ID Host" is the host that will be used to create Host Certificates using `tbot`.
  This host should additionally have OpenSSH server `sshd` version 6.9 or above running. The SSH port on this host must be open to traffic from the Teleport Proxy Service host.

  ```code
  $ ssh -V
  ```

## Step 1/5. Download and install Teleport

(!/docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

Next, log in to your cluster from your local machine using `tsh` to ensure that your device will be able to interact with the cluster:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=myteleportcluster.com --user=teleport-username
```

## Step 2/5. Create a role to issue `tbot` certificates

In order to create certificates `tbot` requires a `role` that provides the necessary permissions. When we apply a role to a tbot user
in this case, we restrict a bot user to only create host certificates.

Teleport roles can additionally limit the creation of host certificates to a desired **principal**.
For example, normally when creating an SSH host certificate a `principal` represents a user or host that the certificate is explicitly applied to.

By checking that a domain name matches the `principal` on a host certificate in the example configuration we use in this guide, access can be limited only to the desired server or servers.
On Teleport, a **predicate** should be applied to a `principal` to further define the scope of permissions applied to the `principal`.

By using the format of `where: 'predicate(host_cert.principals, "domain.name")'`, a Teleport user can create a role that will only be able to able to
create host certificates with the designated principal. A list of supported predicates, their behavior, and example configurations are listed below:

| **Predicate** | **Behavior** | **Example** |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| `all_equal` | All requested principals must be equal to the set string. If the set string is `foo.example.com`, host certificates limit access only to `foo.example.com`. | `all_equal(host_cert.principals, "foo.example.com")` |
| `all_end_with` |  All requested principals must end with the set string. If the set string is `.example.com`, host certificates limit access only to `*.example.com`. | `all_end_with(host_cert.principals, ".example.com")` |
| `is_subset` | All requested principals must be contained in the listed set. | `is_subset(host_cert.principals, "foo.example.com", "bar.example.com")` |

In the case of an example role for use within this guide, use a text editor of your choice from your local administrative device with `tsh` access to create a role YAML named `tbotrole.yaml` with the following
 configuration options, replacing `nodename.my.domain.com` with the domain name associated with your OpenSSH server:

```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: hostcert-bot
version: v5
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
      - resources:
          - host_cert
        verbs:
          - create
        where: 'is_subset(host_cert.principals, "nodename.my.domain.com")'
```

Once complete, create your role to apply to the `tbot` configuration in the next step:

```code
$ tctl create tbotrole.yaml
```

## Step 3/5 Create Your `tbot` Configuration

Before you create a bot user, you need to determine which role(s) you want to
assign to it. You can use the `tctl` command below from your local machine with `tsh` access to examine what roles exist
on your system:

```code
$ tctl get roles --format=text
```

You will see something like the output below on a fresh install of Teleport with the
preset roles and the addition of the `hostcert-bot` role created previously—your own cluster may have different roles. In this example,
you want to give the bot the `hostcert-bot` role to allow the bot to generate host certificates.

```
Role    Allowed to login as                           Node Labels Access to resources
------- --------------------------------------------- ----------- ----------------------------------------
access  {{internal.logins}}                           <all nodes> event:list,read,session:read,list
auditor no-login-6566121f-b602-47f1-a118-c9c618ee5aec             session:list,read,event:list,read
editor
hostcert-bot                                                      host_cert:create                               
```

Your Machine ID host can now join the Teleport Cluster using a number of supported methods. This guide will highlight both the `token` and the IAM method which uses identity tokens bound to an AWS account.
Note that the following commands may be entered on any device with `tctl` access to the cluster.

While any role with permissions for creating host certificates will work, this guide will make use of the `hostcert-bot` role created previously to ensure that the configuration adheres to the principle of least privilege.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Token-based Joining">

  ```code
  $ tctl bots add robot --roles=hostcert-bot
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="IAM Method">
  First, create an IAM method token that specifies the AWS account from which
  the bot can join. Create the below file as `iam-token.yaml`:

  ```
  kind: token
  version: v2
  metadata:
    # The token name is not a secret because instances must prove that they are
    # running in your AWS account to use this token.
    name: iam-token
  spec:
    # Only allow bots to join using this token.
    roles: [Bot]

    # Set the join method to be IAM.
    join_method: iam

    # Define the name of the bot that will be allowed to use this token.
    bot_name: robot

    allow:
    # Restrict the AWS account and (optionally) ARN that can use this token.
    # This information can be obtained from running the
    # "aws sts get-caller-identity" command from the CLI.
    - aws_account: "111111111111"
      aws_arn: "arn:aws:sts::111111111111:assumed-role/teleport-bot-role/i-*"
  ```

  With the `iam-token-yaml` file created, enter the following command:

  ```
  $ tctl create -f iam-token.yaml
  ```

  Next, create the bot user.

  ```
  $ tctl bots add robot --token=iam-token --roles=hostcert-bot
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Generating a configuration file

Machine ID may now be configured using the `tbot configure` command on the Machine ID host.

First, create a basic configuration file using the following parameters:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Token-based Joining">
  ```code
  $ tbot configure \
     --data-dir=/var/lib/teleport/bot \
     --token=(=presets.tokens.first=) \
     --join-method=token \
     --certificate-ttl=1h0m0s \
     --ca-pin=(=presets.ca_pin=) \
     --auth-server=example.teleport.sh:443
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="IAM method">
  ```code
  $ tbot configure \
     --data-dir=/var/lib/teleport/bot \
     --token=iam-token \
     --join-method=iam \
     --certificate-ttl=1h0m0s \
     --ca-pin=(=presets.ca_pin=) \
     --auth-server=example.teleport.sh:443
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Replace the following fields with values from your own cluster:

- `token` is the token output by the `tctl bots add` command or the name of your IAM method token.
- `ca-pin` is the CA Pin for your Teleport cluster, and is output by the `tctl bots add` command.
- `data-dir` is where Machine ID writes its private data, including its own short-lived renewable certificates. These should not be used by applications and tools.
- `certificate-ttl` is the option that will determine the time until expiration for any `tbot` issued certificates, including host certificates. The default TTL is for one hour, meaning that all generated certificates will expire after one hour's time.
- `auth-server` is the address of your Teleport Proxy or Teleport Cloud tenant, for example `tele.example.com:443`.

Using a text editor of your choice, write the output generated by the `tbot configure` command to a configuration YAML file. In this example we'll be using `tbot.yaml`.

### Configuring the output

You now need to add an **output** to the `tbot` configuration. An output specifies where `tbot` should write certificates and what types of certificate should be written.

Add an `ssh_host` output to `tbot.yaml`, specifying the directory you wish the credentials to be written to and the name which should be included in the host certificate:

```
outputs:
  - type: ssh_host
    destination:
      type: directory
      path: /opt/machine-id
    principals: [nodename.my.domain.com]
```

Once completed, your `tbot.yaml` configuration should resemble the following:

```
version: v2
onboarding:
  token: "1234abcd5678efgh9"
  ca_path: ""
  ca_pins:
  - sha256:1234abcd5678efgh910ijklmnop
  join_method: token
storage:
  type: directory
  path: /var/lib/teleport/bot
  symlinks: secure
  acls: try
outputs:
  - type: ssh_host
    destination:
      type: directory
      path: /opt/machine-id
    principals: [nodename.my.domain.com]
debug: false
auth_server: example.teleport.sh:443
certificate_ttl: 1h0m0s
renewal_interval: 20m0s
oneshot: false
```

Note the `renewal_interval` field, which will determine the cadence in which new certificates will be generated. Machine ID uses a default of 20 minutes for the `renewal_interval`, however this field may be adjusted as needed.

## Step 4/5 Start Machine ID and create a host certificate

Using your configuration file, the `tbot start` command will start running Machine ID on your Machine ID host in a loop,
writing renewable certificates to `/var/lib/teleport/bot` according to your configuration, and the short-lived certificates including the host certificate your bot will use to `/opt/machine-id`.

In a production environment you will want to run Machine ID in the background using a service manager like systemd. However, in this guide you will run it in the foreground to better understand how it works.

```code
$ export TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY=1
$ tbot start -c tbot.yaml
```

`TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY` enables the submission of anonymous usage
telemetry. This helps us shape the future development of `tbot`. You can disable
this by omitting this.

Now that Machine ID has successfully started, let's investigate the /opt/machine-id directory to see what was written to disk.

```code
$ ls -1 /opt/machine-id
identity
key
key-cert.pub
key.pub
known_hosts
ssh_config
ssh_host
ssh_host-cert.pub
ssh_host-user-ca.pub
teleport-database-ca.crt
teleport-host-ca.crt
teleport-user-ca.crt
tlscert
```

Included in the output is the host certificate, private key, and user CA file Machine ID will have generated. The `ssh_host-cert.pub` file is the public host certificate, the `ssh_host` file
is a private key file bound to the certificate, and the `ssh_host-user-ca.pub` file is the public user CA file. To confirm that the outputted files have been created correctly,
view the public host certificate's contents by entering the following command:

```code
$ sudo ssh-keygen -L -f /opt/machine-id/key-cert.pub
```

The contents of the public certificate will appear, and will contain a `principals` field which will contain the `nodename.my.domain.com` domain entered in a previous step.
Your output will resemble the following:

```
        Type: ssh-rsa-cert-v01@openssh.com host certificate
        Public key: RSA-CERT SHA256:abcde123efghijk567lmnop
        Signing CA: RSA SHA256:abcde123efghijk567lmnop (using rsa-sha2-512)
        Key ID: ""
        Serial: 0
        Valid: from 2022-09-30T13:16:36 to 2022-09-30T17:17:36
        Principals:
                nodename.my.domain.com
        Critical Options: (none)
        Extensions:
                x-teleport-authority UNKNOWN OPTION (len 55)
                x-teleport-role UNKNOWN OPTION (len 8)
```

## Step 5/5 Configuring SSHD and connecting to the Teleport Cluster

In order to ensure that the Machine ID host is able to authorize and authenticate itself to the cluster using `sshd`, `sshd` must now be configured to
use the generated certificate files.

Using a text editor of your choice, open the `sshd` configuration file, usually found at `/etc/ssh/sshd_config`, and add the following lines:

```ini
## Path to the private Key File affiliated with the host certificate.
HostKey /opt/machine-id/ssh_host

## Ensures that the OpenSSH server is offering the generated public host certificate when connections are attempted.
HostCertificate /opt/machine-id/ssh_host-cert.pub

## Ensures that the server will trust certificates signed by the remote CA
TrustedUserCAKeys /opt/machine-id/ssh_host-user-ca.pub
```

Once saved, restart `sshd` to apply the new configuration:

```code
$ systemctl restart sshd
```

The Machine ID host is now fully configured to accept connections from a `tsh` user.
To confirm this, enter the following command from your local machine logged into the cluster using `tsh`:

```code
$ tsh ssh -p 22 root@nodename.my.domain.com
```

The connection should successfully complete without the need to manually enter any additional credentials.

## Next steps

Now that host certificates have been created with Teleport, they can be applied to OpenSSH configurations as needed. For more information regarding the next steps
to connect to OpenSSH with Teleport, see the following documentation:

- [Using Teleport With OpenSSH](../../server-access/guides/openssh.mdx)
- [Using SSH Host Certificates](https://goteleport.com/blog/how-to-ssh-properly/)
- [Machine ID Configuration Reference](../reference/configuration.mdx)
- [Joining Nodes using the IAM method](../../management/join-services-to-your-cluster/aws-ec2.mdx)

[More information about `TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY`.](../reference/telemetry.mdx)
