docs/pages/admin-guides/management/guides/aws-iam-identity-center/migrating-identity-center-from-okta-to-teleport.mdx, before:

---
title: Migrating AWS IAM Identity Center from Okta to Teleport
description: A guide for gradually migrating an Identity Center instance from Okta control to Teleport control
tocDepth: 3
---

By default, the Teleport AWS IAM Identity Center integration:
- Controls user and group provisioning into Identity Center,
- Controls AWS account permission assignment provisioning into Identity Center, and
- Authenticates user access to AWS console via Teleport SAML IdP.

This is fine for most deployments, but can cause difficulties when integrating Teleport with
an existing Okta-managed AWS IAM Identity Center configuration.

This guide introduces a hybrid setup and a migration path to integrate Teleport in
such an existing Okta-managed AWS IAM Identity Center configuration where Okta will
continue working as an SSO provider to AWS console while Teleport manages user, group
and AWS account permission assignment provisioning.

### Migration Path

#### Starting Point

This is our starting configuration: Okta as sole Identity Source for Identity Center.

![Migration Starting Point](../../../../../img/identity-center/ic-migrate-start.png)

#### Midway

This is the point where you can start migrating control of users and groups from
Okta to Teleport. At this stage:

 - Okta provides SSO login for Identity Center.
 - Okta manages a subset of the Identity Center group membership (selected via Push Groups).
 - Okta and Teleport both control user provisioning via SCIM.
 - Teleport manages a second subset of Identity Center groups (selected via group filters during plugin installation).
 - Teleport controls Identity Center group account assignments for the Identity Center groups under its control.
 - Teleport controls direct Identity Center user account assignments for the Identity Center users under its control.

![Migration Mid Point](../../../../../img/identity-center/ic-migrate-mid.png)

#### Ending point

Once Teleport is in control of all the users and groups you want to provision
into Identity Center, the Okta Provisioning and Push Groups functions can be
retired, leaving Okta only providing SSO login.

![Migration End Point](../../../../../img/identity-center/ic-migrate-end.png)

## Prerequisites

 - A working Teleport cluster.
 - An AWS role configured as per the [Identity Center guide](./aws-iam-identity-center.mdx#step-16-configure-aws-integration)
   for the integration to use.
 - AWS credentials configured for the Teleport auth process to pick up and use
   (e.g. as environment vars, system profiles, etc).
 - An Okta API token, with the following privileges:
   - View users and their details.
   - View groups and their details.
   - View applications and their details.
 - The AWS IAM Identity Center ARN, AWS region, SCIM base address and SCIM bearer token.

## Step 1/7. Install Okta SAML connector

Install Okta SAML connector into Teleport as per the Teleport
[Okta as an SSO provider](../../../access-controls/sso/okta.mdx) guide.

<Admonition type="note">
 For the integration to function properly, both AWS IAM Identity Center and Teleport must view the
 same user set which can be achieved by using the same Okta SAML application for both Identity
 Center and Teleport SAML connector.

 If this is not possible, the most flexible approach we've found is having an
 an Okta Group for those users that should have Identity Center access, and then assigning
 both the Okta Identity Center App and the Okta SAML App used for Teleport SAML
 connector to that group. This ensures that the same user set is visible across
 both applications.
</Admonition>

You will need the Teleport SAML Connector Name and Okta SAML App ID in the next
step.

## Step 2/7. Install the Teleport Okta integration

We will be using a very limited subset of the Teleport Okta integration in this
deployment, disabling all features except periodic user synchronization. This
configuration is not currently supported by the normal installation UI, so we
will have to use `tctl` to install it:

```console
$ tctl plugins install okta \
    --org ${OKTA_ORG_URL} \
    --saml-connector ${TELEPORT_SAML_CONNECTOR_NAME} \
    --app-id ${OKTA_SAML_APP_ID} \
    --api-token ${OKTA_API_TOKEN} \
    --no-scim \
    --no-accesslist-sync \
    --no-appgroup-sync
```

This will install the Okta integration and start the user sync service with a
configuration that:
- Imports Okta users assigned to the Okta App `${OKTA_SAML_APP_ID}`, and keeps
  them synced with the upstream Okta organization.
- Does *not* expose a SCIM service.
- Does *not* attempt to sync or manage any other resources from Okta.

You can monitor the state of the Okta integration in the Teleport Integrations UI.

## Step 3/7. Wait for user sync

To make sure everything is working, wait until the first Okta to Teleport user
sync has occurred. You can verify this by either
 - Refreshing the user page and finding your Okta users, or
 - Checking the Okta integration status page.

Once your Okta users are imported into Teleport, you can progress to the next
step.

## Step 4/7. Install the Teleport AWS IAM Identity Center integration

Again, we need to install the plugin using `tctl`.

```console
$ tctl plugins install awsic \
    --instance-arn ${IDENTITY_CENTER_INSTANCE_ARN} \
    --instance-region ${IDENTITY_CENTER_INSTANCE_REGION} \
    --use-system-credentials \
    --scim-url ${IDENTITY_CENTER_SCIM_BASE_URL} \
    --scim-token ${IDENTITY_CENTER_SCIM_BEARER_TOKEN} \
    --default-owner ${TELEPORT_ACCESS_LIST_DEFAULT_OWNER} \
    --user-origin okta \
    --account-name ${ACCOUNT_NAME_ALLOW_FILTER} \
    --group-name ${GROUP_NAME_ALLOW_FILTER}
```

This will install the Teleport AWS IAM Identity Center integration with a
Teleport configuration that:
- Controls the AWS IAM Identity Center instance indicated by `--instance-arn`.
- Uses the system AWS credentials to authenticate with AWS (from `--use-system-credentials`)
- Manages account assignments all AWS accounts that match the `${ACCOUNT_NAME_ALLOW_FILTER}`.
- Provisions all users imported from Okta into AWS IAM Identity Center (from the `--user-origin okta` flag).
- Only imports all groups matching `${GROUP_NAME_ALLOW_FILTER}` into Teleport as Access
  Lists, with `${TELEPORT_ACCESS_LIST_DEFAULT_OWNER}` as the owner.

<Admonition type="note">
Note that the `tctl` installer currently only supports installations using
system-level AWS credentials with `--use-system-credentials`.

Using system-level credential is also the recommended way to provide AWS credential when
configuring integration in the Teleport Enterprise self-hosted deployment.
</Admonition>

You can change the AWS account, group and user filters later by following the
instructions in [Step 6](#step-67-expanding-teleport-integration-scope).

During the installation process, Teleport will import all of the Identity Center
groups that match its allow list (or all of them, if no allow list is defined)
and create matching Access Lists, preserving the group membership and account
assignments.

<Admonition type="warning">
Individual user account assignments will ***not*** be preserved during import. You
will need to ensure these are preserved manually, or converted to group assignments
prior to installation.
</Admonition>

### Group import control

The Group import allow list is controlled by the `--group-name` option. You can
specify multiple filters and a Group will be imported if matches _any_ of the
supplied filters. Filters can be either literal names, globbed names or Go
compatible regular expressions. To treat a filter as a regular expression,
enclose it in a leading `^` and trailing `$`.

Example filters:
 - `administrators`: The literal "administrators" group
 - `site-*`: Any group with the prefix `site-`
 - `^(?:[^a]|a[^w]|aw[^s]|aws[^\-]).*$`: Any group that does ***not*** have the prefix `aws-`

Ensure that there is no overlap between the groups imported to Teleport and the
groups you want Okta to maintain control over.

<Admonition type="warning">
Avoid creating an Access List with the same name as a Push Group managed by Okta.
Teleport will attempt to adopt the group, and may change the group membership.
Deleting the Teleport Access List and forcing a re-push from Okta should restore
access.
</Admonition>

### User provisioning control

Your Teleport cluster may have a mix of local Teleport users (e.g. a local Admin
user) and users imported from Okta. By default, Teleport will try to provision
_all_ Teleport users into Identity Center. You can control which users are
provisioned by the Identity Center integration with the `--user-origin` and
`--user-filter` arguments. In the example above, the `--user-origin okta` will
restrict Teleport to only provisioning users that are synced from Okta, and
excluding all local Teleport users.

### AWS account import control

By default, Teleport will take control of Account Assignments for all AWS Accounts
managed by Identity Center. You can create an allow-list of AWS Accounts to
import with the  `--account-name` and `--account-id` install options.

The `--account-name` filters work like the `--group-name` filters above. The
`--account-id` filters specify a literal AWS Account ID.

Teleport will not create or delete Account Assignments on AWS accounts outside
of its allow-list.

## Step 5/7. Migrate AWS account permission assignments

We're now at the midway point, and ready to migrate Account Assignments from the
Okta-managed groups into new Teleport-managed Access Lists. To migrate groups,
create a new Access List in Teleport (taking care not to use the same name as
the existing Okta-managed Group) and create the appropriate memberships and
Account Assignments.

Account Assignments can be created on an Access List by assigning it the Account
Assignment roles created by the Identity Center integration, assigning it a
custom Teleport role that specifies a specific combination of access, or a
combination of each.

For more information, see the [Identity Center integration guide](./aws-iam-identity-center.mdx).

## Step 6/7. Expanding Teleport integration scope

Once you are satisfied with the way Teleport is handling the initial set of
imported AWS resources, you can expand the scope of the Identity Center
integration by editing the plugin import features.


### Edit plugin spec with `tctl edit`

<Admonition type="warning">
This currently involves manually editing the Identity Center's integration
resource using `tctl`, which is a dangerous operation. Please ensure you take a
backup of the plugin resource so you can roll back if necessary.

A guided editing workflow is currently under development.
</Admonition>

You can expand the scope of the Teleport Identity Center integration by editing
the integration's plugin resource with `tctl`.

```console
$ tctl edit plugins/aws-identity-center
```

The plugin resource is a YAML document that looks something like this:

```YAML
kind: plugin
version: v1
metadata:
  labels:
    teleport.dev/hosted-plugin: "true"
  name: aws-identity-center
spec:
  Settings:
    aws_ic:
      # Account import filters. An absent or empty list of filters implies "manage all AWS accounts"
      aws_accounts_filters:
      - Include:
          id: "637423191929"
      - Include:
          id: "730335414865"
      - Include:
          id: "058264527036"
      - Include:
          name_regex: ^Staging-.*$

      # User provisioning filters. An absent or empty list of filters implies "provision all users to AWS"
      user_sync_filters:
      - labels:
          teleport.dev/origin: okta

      # Group import filters. See notes below.
      group_sync_filters:
      - Include:
          name_regex: '^Group #00\d+$'

      access_list_default_owners:
      - admin
      arn: arn:aws:sso:::instance/ssoins-722326ecc902a06a
      credentials_source: 2
      integration_name: aws-identity-center
      provisioning_spec:
        base_url: https://scim.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/f3v9c6bc2ca-b104-4571-b669-f2eba522efe8/scim/v2
      region: us-east-1
```

You can add or remove filters to the various filter sets. Once you save and quit
the editor, `tctl` will replace the existing resource with your updated version.
This will automatically restart the Identity Center Integration with the new
filters.

<Admonition type="note">
As of Teleport 17.3, the `group_sync_filters` are only applied during the initial
import at installation time, and there is no user accessible method of re-triggering
the import. The only way to apply new group filters is to uninstall and re-install
the plugin.

A later release of Teleport will re-trigger a group import when it detects a
change in the group import filters.
</Admonition>

### Re-install plugin

A second alternative is to [uninstall](#deleting-the-identity-center-integration)
and re-install the integration with the new parameters. Be warned that this may 
result in user access disruptions while the integration is offline.

## Step 7/7. Retire Okta group provisioning

Once you are satisfied that an AWS IAM Identity Center group has been migrated to 
Teleport control, you can remove the corresponding push Group from the Okta
Identity Center integration.

Commit message:

move how to guide to root docs page, add detailed deletion guide to getting started page

docs/pages/admin-guides/management/guides/aws-iam-identity-center/migrating-identity-center-from-okta-to-teleport.mdx, after:

---
title: Migrating AWS IAM Identity Center from Okta to Teleport
description: A guide for gradually migrating an Identity Center instance from Okta control to Teleport control
tocDepth: 3
---

By default, the Teleport AWS IAM Identity Center integration:
- Controls user and group provisioning into Identity Center,
- Controls AWS account assignment provisioning into Identity Center, and
- Authenticates user access to AWS console via Teleport SAML IdP.

This is fine for most deployments, but can cause difficulties when integrating Teleport with
an existing Okta-managed AWS IAM Identity Center configuration.

This guide introduces a hybrid setup and a migration path to integrate Teleport in
such an existing Okta-managed AWS IAM Identity Center configuration where Okta will
continue working as an SSO provider to AWS console while Teleport manages user, group
and AWS account assignment provisioning.

### Migration Path

#### Starting Point

This is our starting configuration: Okta as sole Identity Source for Identity Center.

![Migration Starting Point](../../../../../img/identity-center/ic-migrate-start.png)

#### Midway

This is the point where you can start migrating control of users and groups from
Okta to Teleport. At this stage:

 - Okta provides SSO login for Identity Center.
 - Okta manages a subset of the Identity Center group membership (selected via Push Groups).
 - Okta and Teleport both control user provisioning via SCIM.
 - Teleport manages a second subset of Identity Center groups (selected via group filters during plugin installation).
 - Teleport controls Identity Center group account assignments for the Identity Center groups under its control.
 - Teleport controls direct Identity Center user account assignments for the Identity Center users under its control.

![Migration Mid Point](../../../../../img/identity-center/ic-migrate-mid.png)

#### Ending point

Once Teleport is in control of all the users and groups you want to provision
into Identity Center, the Okta Provisioning and Push Groups functions can be
retired, leaving Okta only providing SSO login.

![Migration End Point](../../../../../img/identity-center/ic-migrate-end.png)

## Prerequisites

 - A working Teleport cluster.
 - An AWS role configured as per the [AWS IAM Identity Center guide](./guide.mdx#step-16-configure-aws-integration)
   for the integration to use.
 - AWS credentials configured for the Teleport auth process to pick up and use
   (e.g. as environment vars, system profiles, etc).
 - An Okta API token, with the following privileges:
   - View users and their details.
   - View groups and their details.
   - View applications and their details.
 - The AWS IAM Identity Center ARN, AWS region, SCIM base address and SCIM bearer token.

## Step 1/7. Install Okta SAML connector

Install Okta SAML connector into Teleport as per the Teleport
[Okta as an SSO provider](../../../access-controls/sso/okta.mdx) guide.

<Admonition type="note">
 For the integration to function properly, both AWS IAM Identity Center and Teleport must view the
 same user set which can be achieved by using the same Okta SAML application for both Identity
 Center and Teleport SAML connector.

 If this is not possible, the most flexible approach we've found is having an
 an Okta Group for those users that should have Identity Center access, and then assigning
 both the Okta Identity Center App and the Okta SAML App used for Teleport SAML
 connector to that group. This ensures that the same user set is visible across
 both applications.
</Admonition>

You will need the Teleport SAML Connector Name and Okta SAML App ID in the next
step.

## Step 2/7. Install the Teleport Okta integration

We will be using a very limited subset of the Teleport Okta integration in this
deployment, disabling all features except periodic user synchronization. This
configuration is not currently supported by the normal installation UI, so we
will have to use `tctl` to install it:

```console
$ tctl plugins install okta \
    --org ${OKTA_ORG_URL} \
    --saml-connector ${TELEPORT_SAML_CONNECTOR_NAME} \
    --app-id ${OKTA_SAML_APP_ID} \
    --api-token ${OKTA_API_TOKEN} \
    --no-scim \
    --no-accesslist-sync \
    --no-appgroup-sync
```

This will install the Okta integration and start the user sync service with a
configuration that:
- Imports Okta users assigned to the Okta App `${OKTA_SAML_APP_ID}`, and keeps
  them synced with the upstream Okta organization.
- Does *not* expose a SCIM service.
- Does *not* attempt to sync or manage any other resources from Okta.

You can monitor the state of the Okta integration in the Teleport Integrations UI.

## Step 3/7. Wait for user sync

To make sure everything is working, wait until the first Okta to Teleport user
sync has occurred. You can verify this by either
 - Refreshing the user page and finding your Okta users, or
 - Checking the Okta integration status page.

Once your Okta users are imported into Teleport, you can progress to the next
step.

## Step 4/7. Install the Teleport AWS IAM Identity Center integration

Again, we need to install the plugin using `tctl`.

```console
$ tctl plugins install awsic \
    --instance-arn ${IDENTITY_CENTER_INSTANCE_ARN} \
    --instance-region ${IDENTITY_CENTER_INSTANCE_REGION} \
    --use-system-credentials \
    --scim-url ${IDENTITY_CENTER_SCIM_BASE_URL} \
    --scim-token ${IDENTITY_CENTER_SCIM_BEARER_TOKEN} \
    --default-owner ${TELEPORT_ACCESS_LIST_DEFAULT_OWNER} \
    --user-origin okta \
    --account-name ${ACCOUNT_NAME_ALLOW_FILTER} \
    --group-name ${GROUP_NAME_ALLOW_FILTER}
```

This will install the Teleport AWS IAM Identity Center integration with a
Teleport configuration that:
- Controls the AWS IAM Identity Center instance indicated by `--instance-arn`.
- Uses the system AWS credentials to authenticate with AWS (from `--use-system-credentials`)
- Manages account assignments all AWS accounts that match the `${ACCOUNT_NAME_ALLOW_FILTER}`.
- Provisions all users imported from Okta into AWS IAM Identity Center (from the `--user-origin okta` flag).
- Only imports all groups matching `${GROUP_NAME_ALLOW_FILTER}` into Teleport as Access
  Lists, with `${TELEPORT_ACCESS_LIST_DEFAULT_OWNER}` as the owner.

<Admonition type="note">
Note that the `tctl` installer currently only supports installations using
system-level AWS credentials with `--use-system-credentials`.

Using system-level credential is also the recommended way to provide AWS credential when
configuring integration in the Teleport Enterprise self-hosted deployment.
</Admonition>

You can change the AWS account, group and user filters later by following the
instructions in [Step 6](#step-67-expanding-teleport-integration-scope).

During the installation process, Teleport will import all of the Identity Center
groups that match its allow list (or all of them, if no allow list is defined)
and create matching Access Lists, preserving the group membership and account
assignments.

<Admonition type="warning">
Individual user account assignments will ***not*** be preserved during import. You
will need to ensure these are preserved manually, or converted to group assignments
prior to installation.
</Admonition>

### Group import control

The Group import allow list is controlled by the `--group-name` option. You can
specify multiple filters and a Group will be imported if matches _any_ of the
supplied filters. Filters can be either literal names, globbed names or Go
compatible regular expressions. To treat a filter as a regular expression,
enclose it in a leading `^` and trailing `$`.

Example filters:
 - `administrators`: The literal "administrators" group
 - `site-*`: Any group with the prefix `site-`
 - `^(?:[^a]|a[^w]|aw[^s]|aws[^\-]).*$`: Any group that does ***not*** have the prefix `aws-`

Ensure that there is no overlap between the groups imported to Teleport and the
groups you want Okta to maintain control over.

<Admonition type="warning">
Avoid creating an Access List with the same name as a Push Group managed by Okta.
Teleport will attempt to adopt the group, and may change the group membership.
Deleting the Teleport Access List and forcing a re-push from Okta should restore
access.
</Admonition>

### User provisioning control

Your Teleport cluster may have a mix of local Teleport users (e.g. a local Admin
user) and users imported from Okta. By default, Teleport will try to provision
_all_ Teleport users into Identity Center. You can control which users are
provisioned by the Identity Center integration with the `--user-origin` and
`--user-filter` arguments. In the example above, the `--user-origin okta` will
restrict Teleport to only provisioning users that are synced from Okta, and
excluding all local Teleport users.

### AWS account import control

By default, Teleport will take control of account assignments for all AWS Accounts
managed by Identity Center. You can create an allow-list of AWS Accounts to
import with the  `--account-name` and `--account-id` install options.

The `--account-name` filters work like the `--group-name` filters above. The
`--account-id` filters specify a literal AWS Account ID.

Teleport will not create or delete account assignments on AWS accounts outside
of its allow-list.

## Step 5/7. Migrate AWS account assignments

We're now at the midway point, and ready to migrate account assignments from the
Okta-managed groups into new Teleport-managed Access Lists. To migrate groups,
create a new Access List in Teleport (taking care not to use the same name as
the existing Okta-managed Group) and create the appropriate memberships and
account assignments.

account assignments can be created on an Access List by assigning it the Account
Assignment roles created by the Identity Center integration, assigning it a
custom Teleport role that specifies a specific combination of access, or a
combination of each.

For more information, see the [Identity Center integration guide](./guide.mdx).

## Step 6/7. Expanding Teleport integration scope

Once you are satisfied with the way Teleport is handling the initial set of
imported AWS resources, you can expand the scope of the Identity Center
integration by editing the plugin import features.


### Edit plugin spec with `tctl edit`

<Admonition type="warning">
This currently involves manually editing the Identity Center's integration
resource using `tctl`, which is a dangerous operation. Please ensure you take a
backup of the plugin resource so you can roll back if necessary.

A guided editing workflow is currently under development.
</Admonition>

You can expand the scope of the Teleport Identity Center integration by editing
the integration's plugin resource with `tctl`.

```console
$ tctl edit plugins/aws-identity-center
```

The plugin resource is a YAML document that looks something like this:

```YAML
kind: plugin
version: v1
metadata:
  labels:
    teleport.dev/hosted-plugin: "true"
  name: aws-identity-center
spec:
  Settings:
    aws_ic:
      # Account import filters. An absent or empty list of filters implies "manage all AWS accounts"
      aws_accounts_filters:
      - Include:
          id: "637423191929"
      - Include:
          id: "730335414865"
      - Include:
          id: "058264527036"
      - Include:
          name_regex: ^Staging-.*$

      # User provisioning filters. An absent or empty list of filters implies "provision all users to AWS"
      user_sync_filters:
      - labels:
          teleport.dev/origin: okta

      # Group import filters. See notes below.
      group_sync_filters:
      - Include:
          name_regex: '^Group #00\d+$'

      access_list_default_owners:
      - admin
      arn: arn:aws:sso:::instance/ssoins-722326ecc902a06a
      credentials_source: 2
      integration_name: aws-identity-center
      provisioning_spec:
        base_url: https://scim.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/f3v9c6bc2ca-b104-4571-b669-f2eba522efe8/scim/v2
      region: us-east-1
```

You can add or remove filters to the various filter sets. Once you save and quit
the editor, `tctl` will replace the existing resource with your updated version.
This will automatically restart the Identity Center Integration with the new
filters.

<Admonition type="note">
As of Teleport 17.3, the `group_sync_filters` are only applied during the initial
import at installation time, and there is no user accessible method of re-triggering
the import. The only way to apply new group filters is to uninstall and re-install
the plugin.

A later release of Teleport will re-trigger a group import when it detects a
change in the group import filters.
</Admonition>

### Re-install plugin

A second alternative is to [uninstall](#deleting-the-identity-center-integration)
and re-install the integration with the new parameters. Be warned that this may 
result in user access disruptions while the integration is offline.

## Step 7/7. Retire Okta group provisioning

Once you are satisfied that an AWS IAM Identity Center group has been migrated to 
Teleport control, you can remove the corresponding push Group from the Okta
Identity Center integration.

## Deleting the AWS IAM Identity Center integration

Deleting the integration automatically removes all Teleport resources it used to manage its state.

The impact of plugin deletion and general consideration is explained in the [AWS IAM Identity Center guide](./guide.mdx#how-do-i-uninstall-the-integration).

Delete AWS IAM Identity Center plugin with `tctl`.

```
$ tctl plugins delete aws-identity-center
```
