docs/pages/reference/terraform-provider/data-sources/access_monitoring_rule.mdx, before:

---
title: Reference for the teleport_access_monitoring_rule Terraform data-source
sidebar_label: access_monitoring_rule
description: This page describes the supported values of the teleport_access_monitoring_rule data-source of the Teleport Terraform provider.
---

{/*Auto-generated file. Do not edit.*/}
{/*To regenerate, navigate to integrations/terraform and run `make docs`.*/}





{/*  schema generated by tfplugindocs */}
## Schema

### Required

- `spec` (Attributes) Spec is an AccessMonitoringRule specification (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-spec))
- `version` (String) version is version

### Optional

- `metadata` (Attributes) metadata is the rules's metadata. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-metadata))
- `sub_kind` (String) sub_kind is an optional resource sub kind, used in some resources

### Nested Schema for `spec`

Required:

- `subjects` (List of String) subjects the rule operates on, can be a resource kind or a particular resource property.

Optional:

- `condition` (String) condition is a predicate expression that operates on the specified subject resources, and determines whether the subject will be moved into desired state.
- `notification` (Attributes) notification defines the plugin configuration for notifications if rule is triggered. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specnotification))
- `states` (List of String) states are the desired state which the monitoring rule is attempting to bring the subjects matching the condition to.

### Nested Schema for `spec.notification`

Optional:

- `name` (String) name is the name of the plugin to which this configuration should apply.
- `recipients` (List of String) recipients is the list of recipients the plugin should notify.



### Nested Schema for `metadata`

Required:

- `name` (String) name is an object name.

Optional:

- `description` (String) description is object description.
- `expires` (String) expires is a global expiry time header can be set on any resource in the system.
- `labels` (Map of String) labels is a set of labels.

Commit message:

access_monitoring_rule: Support spec.automatic_approval field (#52274)
* Support automatic_approval in AMR spec

* Support filter by automatic_approval_name

* Update AMR validation

* Update terraform schema

* Fix import

* Add additional test case

* Improve amr spec godocs

* make -C integrations/terraform docs

docs/pages/reference/terraform-provider/data-sources/access_monitoring_rule.mdx, after:

---
title: Reference for the teleport_access_monitoring_rule Terraform data-source
sidebar_label: access_monitoring_rule
description: This page describes the supported values of the teleport_access_monitoring_rule data-source of the Teleport Terraform provider.
---

{/*Auto-generated file. Do not edit.*/}
{/*To regenerate, navigate to integrations/terraform and run `make docs`.*/}





{/*  schema generated by tfplugindocs */}
## Schema

### Required

- `spec` (Attributes) Spec is an AccessMonitoringRule specification (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-spec))
- `version` (String) version is version

### Optional

- `metadata` (Attributes) metadata is the rules's metadata. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-metadata))
- `sub_kind` (String) sub_kind is an optional resource sub kind, used in some resources

### Nested Schema for `spec`

Required:

- `subjects` (List of String) subjects the rule operates on, can be a resource kind or a particular resource property.

Optional:

- `automatic_approval` (Attributes) automatic_approval defines the plugin configuration for automatic approvals. Both notification and automatic_approval may be set within the same access_monitoring_rule. If both fields are set, the rule handler will manage notifications and automatic approvals for the same set of access events. Separate plugins may be used if both notifications and automatic_approvals is set. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specautomatic_approval))
- `condition` (String) condition is a predicate expression that operates on the specified subject resources, and determines whether the subject will be moved into desired state.
- `notification` (Attributes) notification defines the plugin configuration for notifications if rule is triggered. Both notification and automatic_approval may be set within the same access_monitoring_rule. If both fields are set, the rule handler will manage notifications and automatic approvals for the same set of access events. Separate plugins may be used if both notifications and automatic_approvals is set. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specnotification))
- `states` (List of String) states are the desired state which the monitoring rule is attempting to bring the subjects matching the condition to.

### Nested Schema for `spec.automatic_approval`

Optional:

- `name` (String) name is the name of the plugin to which this configuration should apply. Set this value to `teleport` to manage automatic approvals natively within Teleport.


### Nested Schema for `spec.notification`

Optional:

- `name` (String) name is the name of the plugin to which this configuration should apply.
- `recipients` (List of String) recipients is the list of recipients the plugin should notify.



### Nested Schema for `metadata`

Required:

- `name` (String) name is an object name.

Optional:

- `description` (String) description is object description.
- `expires` (String) expires is a global expiry time header can be set on any resource in the system.
- `labels` (Map of String) labels is a set of labels.
