docs/pages/reference/terraform-provider/data-sources/saml_connector.mdx, before:

---
title: Reference for the teleport_saml_connector Terraform data-source
description: This page describes the supported values of the teleport_saml_connector data-source of the Teleport Terraform provider.
---

{/*Auto-generated file. Do not edit.*/}
{/*To regenerate, navigate to integrations/terraform and run `make docs`.*/}





{/*  schema generated by tfplugindocs */}
## Schema

### Required

- `spec` (Attributes) Spec is an SAML connector specification. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-spec))
- `version` (String) Version is the resource version. It must be specified. Supported values are: `v2`.

### Optional

- `metadata` (Attributes) Metadata holds resource metadata. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-metadata))
- `sub_kind` (String) SubKind is an optional resource sub kind, used in some resources.

### Nested Schema for `spec`

Required:

- `acs` (String) AssertionConsumerService is a URL for assertion consumer service on the service provider (Teleport's side).
- `attributes_to_roles` (Attributes List) AttributesToRoles is a list of mappings of attribute statements to roles. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specattributes_to_roles))

Optional:

- `allow_idp_initiated` (Boolean) AllowIDPInitiated is a flag that indicates if the connector can be used for IdP-initiated logins.
- `assertion_key_pair` (Attributes) EncryptionKeyPair is a key pair used for decrypting SAML assertions. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specassertion_key_pair))
- `audience` (String) Audience uniquely identifies our service provider.
- `cert` (String, Sensitive) Cert is the identity provider certificate PEM. IDP signs `<Response>` responses using this certificate.
- `client_redirect_settings` (Attributes) ClientRedirectSettings defines which client redirect URLs are allowed for non-browser SSO logins other than the standard localhost ones. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specclient_redirect_settings))
- `display` (String) Display controls how this connector is displayed.
- `entity_descriptor` (String, Sensitive) EntityDescriptor is XML with descriptor. It can be used to supply configuration parameters in one XML file rather than supplying them in the individual elements.
- `entity_descriptor_url` (String) EntityDescriptorURL is a URL that supplies a configuration XML.
- `issuer` (String) Issuer is the identity provider issuer.
- `provider` (String) Provider is the external identity provider.
- `service_provider_issuer` (String) ServiceProviderIssuer is the issuer of the service provider (Teleport).
- `signing_key_pair` (Attributes) SigningKeyPair is an x509 key pair used to sign AuthnRequest. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specsigning_key_pair))
- `single_logout_url` (String) SingleLogoutURL is the SAML Single log-out URL to initiate SAML SLO (single log-out). If this is not provided, SLO is disabled.
- `sso` (String) SSO is the URL of the identity provider's SSO service.

### Nested Schema for `spec.attributes_to_roles`

Optional:

- `name` (String) Name is an attribute statement name.
- `roles` (List of String) Roles is a list of static teleport roles to map to.
- `value` (String) Value is an attribute statement value to match.


### Nested Schema for `spec.assertion_key_pair`

Optional:

- `cert` (String) Cert is a PEM-encoded x509 certificate.
- `private_key` (String, Sensitive) PrivateKey is a PEM encoded x509 private key.


### Nested Schema for `spec.client_redirect_settings`

Optional:

- `allowed_https_hostnames` (List of String) a list of hostnames allowed for https client redirect URLs


### Nested Schema for `spec.signing_key_pair`

Optional:

- `cert` (String) Cert is a PEM-encoded x509 certificate.
- `private_key` (String, Sensitive) PrivateKey is a PEM encoded x509 private key.



### Nested Schema for `metadata`

Required:

- `name` (String) Name is an object name

Optional:

- `description` (String) Description is object description
- `expires` (String) Expires is a global expiry time header can be set on any resource in the system.
- `labels` (Map of String) Labels is a set of labels

Commit message:

add option to allow client redirects from IPs in specified CIDR ranges in SSO client logins (#44556)
Co-authored-by: Andrew LeFevre <Andrew LeFevre>

docs/pages/reference/terraform-provider/data-sources/saml_connector.mdx, after:

---
title: Reference for the teleport_saml_connector Terraform data-source
description: This page describes the supported values of the teleport_saml_connector data-source of the Teleport Terraform provider.
---

{/*Auto-generated file. Do not edit.*/}
{/*To regenerate, navigate to integrations/terraform and run `make docs`.*/}





{/*  schema generated by tfplugindocs */}
## Schema

### Required

- `spec` (Attributes) Spec is an SAML connector specification. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-spec))
- `version` (String) Version is the resource version. It must be specified. Supported values are: `v2`.

### Optional

- `metadata` (Attributes) Metadata holds resource metadata. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-metadata))
- `sub_kind` (String) SubKind is an optional resource sub kind, used in some resources.

### Nested Schema for `spec`

Required:

- `acs` (String) AssertionConsumerService is a URL for assertion consumer service on the service provider (Teleport's side).
- `attributes_to_roles` (Attributes List) AttributesToRoles is a list of mappings of attribute statements to roles. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specattributes_to_roles))

Optional:

- `allow_idp_initiated` (Boolean) AllowIDPInitiated is a flag that indicates if the connector can be used for IdP-initiated logins.
- `assertion_key_pair` (Attributes) EncryptionKeyPair is a key pair used for decrypting SAML assertions. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specassertion_key_pair))
- `audience` (String) Audience uniquely identifies our service provider.
- `cert` (String, Sensitive) Cert is the identity provider certificate PEM. IDP signs `<Response>` responses using this certificate.
- `client_redirect_settings` (Attributes) ClientRedirectSettings defines which client redirect URLs are allowed for non-browser SSO logins other than the standard localhost ones. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specclient_redirect_settings))
- `display` (String) Display controls how this connector is displayed.
- `entity_descriptor` (String, Sensitive) EntityDescriptor is XML with descriptor. It can be used to supply configuration parameters in one XML file rather than supplying them in the individual elements.
- `entity_descriptor_url` (String) EntityDescriptorURL is a URL that supplies a configuration XML.
- `issuer` (String) Issuer is the identity provider issuer.
- `provider` (String) Provider is the external identity provider.
- `service_provider_issuer` (String) ServiceProviderIssuer is the issuer of the service provider (Teleport).
- `signing_key_pair` (Attributes) SigningKeyPair is an x509 key pair used to sign AuthnRequest. (see [below for nested schema](#nested-schema-for-specsigning_key_pair))
- `single_logout_url` (String) SingleLogoutURL is the SAML Single log-out URL to initiate SAML SLO (single log-out). If this is not provided, SLO is disabled.
- `sso` (String) SSO is the URL of the identity provider's SSO service.

### Nested Schema for `spec.attributes_to_roles`

Optional:

- `name` (String) Name is an attribute statement name.
- `roles` (List of String) Roles is a list of static teleport roles to map to.
- `value` (String) Value is an attribute statement value to match.


### Nested Schema for `spec.assertion_key_pair`

Optional:

- `cert` (String) Cert is a PEM-encoded x509 certificate.
- `private_key` (String, Sensitive) PrivateKey is a PEM encoded x509 private key.


### Nested Schema for `spec.client_redirect_settings`

Optional:

- `allowed_https_hostnames` (List of String) a list of hostnames allowed for https client redirect URLs
- `insecure_allowed_cidr_ranges` (List of String) a list of CIDRs allowed for HTTP or HTTPS client redirect URLs


### Nested Schema for `spec.signing_key_pair`

Optional:

- `cert` (String) Cert is a PEM-encoded x509 certificate.
- `private_key` (String, Sensitive) PrivateKey is a PEM encoded x509 private key.



### Nested Schema for `metadata`

Required:

- `name` (String) Name is an object name

Optional:

- `description` (String) Description is object description
- `expires` (String) Expires is a global expiry time header can be set on any resource in the system.
- `labels` (Map of String) Labels is a set of labels
