docs/pages/access-controls/device-trust/auto-enrollment.mdx, before:

---
title: Set Up Auto-Enrollment (Preview)
description: Set Up Automatic Enrollment for Registered Devices
---

Auto-enrollment allows `tsh` to automatically enroll devices already registered
in Teleport during the user's login. The registration may be
[manual](./guide.mdx#step-12-register-a-trusted-device) or performed using an
integration, like the [Jamf integration](./jamf-integration.mdx).

<Admonition type="warning">
Device Trust is currently in Preview mode.
</Admonition>

The `tsh` prerequisites for regular enrollment, as described below, still apply.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/device-trust/prereqs.mdx!)

## Step 1/2. Enable auto-enrollment

Enable auto-enrollment in your cluster settings:

<Tabs dropDownCaption="Teleport Deployment">
<TabItem label="Dynamic Resources" options="Self-Hosted,Teleport Enterprise Cloud" >
Modify the dynamic config resource using `tctl edit cluster_auth_preference`:

```diff
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  # ...
  device_trust:
    mode: "required"
+   auto_enroll: true
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Static Config" options="Self-Hosted">
Edit the Auth Server's `teleport.yaml` file:

```diff
auth_service:
  authentication:
    # ...
    device_trust:
+     auto_enroll: true
```

After saving the changes, restart the Teleport service.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 2/2. Login using a registered device

Using a device previously registered in Teleport, logout and login again:

```code
$ tsh logout
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=alice
All users logged out.
Enter password for Teleport user alice:
Tap any security key
Detected security key tap
> Profile URL:        https://teleport.example.com:443
  Logged in as:       alice
  Cluster:            teleport.example.com
  Roles:              access, editor
  Logins:             alice
  Kubernetes:         enabled
  Valid until:        2023-06-23 02:47:05 -0300 -03 [valid for 12h0m0s]
  Extensions:         teleport-device-asset-tag, teleport-device-credential-id, teleport-device-id
```

The presence of the **teleport-device-\*** extensions shows that the device was
successfully enrolled and authenticated.

## Troubleshooting

(!docs/pages/includes/device-trust/auto-enroll-troubleshooting.mdx!)

Commit message:

Address Alex's comments
* Reflow text
* Remove redudant tsh prereqs sentence
* Add a registered device to auto-enrollment prereqs
* Use headers instead of bold

docs/pages/access-controls/device-trust/auto-enrollment.mdx, after:

---
title: Set Up Auto-Enrollment (Preview)
description: Set Up Automatic Enrollment for Registered Devices
---

Auto-enrollment allows `tsh` to automatically enroll devices already registered
in Teleport during the user's login. The registration may be
[manual](./guide.mdx#step-12-register-a-trusted-device) or performed using an
integration, like the [Jamf integration](./jamf-integration.mdx).

<Admonition type="warning">
Device Trust is currently in Preview mode.
</Admonition>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/device-trust/prereqs.mdx!)

- [A previously-registered device](
  ./guide.mdx#step-12-register-a-trusted-device) is necessary for
  auto-enrollment to take place.

## Step 1/2. Enable auto-enrollment

Enable auto-enrollment in your cluster settings:

<Tabs dropDownCaption="Teleport Deployment">
<TabItem label="Dynamic Resources" options="Self-Hosted,Teleport Enterprise Cloud" >
Modify the dynamic config resource using `tctl edit cluster_auth_preference`:

```diff
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  # ...
  device_trust:
    mode: "required"
+   auto_enroll: true
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Static Config" options="Self-Hosted">
Edit the Auth Server's `teleport.yaml` file:

```diff
auth_service:
  authentication:
    # ...
    device_trust:
+     auto_enroll: true
```

After saving the changes, restart the Teleport service.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 2/2. Login using a registered device

Using a device previously registered in Teleport, logout and login again:

```code
$ tsh logout
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=alice
All users logged out.
Enter password for Teleport user alice:
Tap any security key
Detected security key tap
> Profile URL:        https://teleport.example.com:443
  Logged in as:       alice
  Cluster:            teleport.example.com
  Roles:              access, editor
  Logins:             alice
  Kubernetes:         enabled
  Valid until:        2023-06-23 02:47:05 -0300 -03 [valid for 12h0m0s]
  Extensions:         teleport-device-asset-tag, teleport-device-credential-id, teleport-device-id
```

The presence of the **teleport-device-\*** extensions shows that the device was
successfully enrolled and authenticated.

## Troubleshooting

(!docs/pages/includes/device-trust/auto-enroll-troubleshooting.mdx!)
