docs/pages/access-controls/device-trust/device-management.mdx, before:

---
title: Manage Trusted Devices
description: Learn how to manage Trusted Devices
---

### Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/device-trust/prereqs.mdx!)

## Register a trusted device

The `tctl` tool is used to manage the device inventory. A device admin is
responsible for managing devices, adding new devices to the inventory and
removing devices that are no longer in use.

<Admonition type="tip" title="Self enrollment: v13.3.5+">
  Users with the preset `editor` or `device-admin` role (since v13.3.6)
  can register and enroll their device in a single step with the following command:
  ```code
  $ tsh device enroll --current-device
  ```
</Admonition>

<Admonition type="tip" title="Sync with Jamf Pro">
Teleport supports device synchronization with [Jamf Pro](./jamf-integration.mdx). Once configured, devices
are automatically updated in Teleport's device inventory.
</Admonition>

Before you can enroll the device, you need to register it. To register
a device, you first need to determine its serial number.

Retrieve device serial number with `tsh` (must be run on the device you want to register):
```code
$ tsh device asset-tag
(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)
```

<Details title="Manually retrieving device serial" closed>
  <Tabs>
  <TabItem label="macOS">
    The serial number is visible under Apple menu -> "About This Mac" -> "Serial number".
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="Windows and Linux">
    Windows and Linux devices can have multiple serial numbers depending on the
    configuration made by the manufacturer.

    Teleport will pick the first available value from the following:
    - System asset tag
    - System serial number
    - Baseboard serial number

    To find the value chosen by Teleport, run the following command:

    ```code
    $ tsh device asset-tag
    (=devicetrust.asset_tag=)
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
</Details>


Replace <Var name="(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)" description="The serial number to
be registered"/> with the serial number of the device you wish to enroll and run
the `tctl devices add` command:

```code
$ tctl devices add --os='<Var name="macos"/>' --asset-tag='<Var name="(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)"/>'
Device <Var name="(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)"/>/macos added to the inventory
```

Use `tctl` to check that the device has been registered:

```code
$ tctl devices ls
Asset Tag    OS    Enroll Status Device ID
------------ ----- ------------- ------------------------------------
(=devicetrust.asset_tag=) macOS not enrolled  (=devicetrust.device_id=)
```

<Admonition type="warning" title="Device Role">
  For clusters created after v13.3.6, Teleport supports preset `device-admin` role to manage devices.

  For clusters created using Teleport v12 or newer, the preset `editor` role has
  the necessary permissions to manage devices. For clusters created before v12, you may want
  to create a dedicated [`device-admin`](#dedicated-device-admin-role) role.
</Admonition>

## Create a device enrollment token

A registered device becomes a trusted device after it goes through the
enrollment ceremony. To enroll the device, a device enrollment token is
necessary. The token is created by a device admin and sent to the person
performing the enrollment off-band (for example, via a corporate chat).

To create an enrollment token run the command below, where `--asset-tag` is
the serial number of the device we want to enroll:

```code
$ tctl devices enroll --asset-tag="(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)"
Run the command below on device "(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)" to enroll it:
tsh device enroll --token=(=devicetrust.enroll_token=)
```

## Enroll a trusted device

To perform the enrollment ceremony, using the device specified above, type the
command printed by `tctl devices enroll`:

```code
$ tsh device enroll --token=(=devicetrust.enroll_token=)
Device "(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)"/macOS enrolled

$ tsh logout
$ tsh login --proxy=(=clusterDefaults.clusterName=) --user=(=clusterDefaults.username=) # fetch new certificates
Enter password for Teleport user (=clusterDefaults.username=):
Tap any security key
Detected security key tap
> Profile URL:        (=clusterDefaults.clusterName=):443
  Logged in as:       (=clusterDefaults.username=)
  Cluster:            (=clusterDefaults.clusterName=)
  Roles:              access, editor
  Logins:             (=clusterDefaults.username=)
  Kubernetes:         enabled
  Valid until:        2023-06-23 02:47:05 -0300 -03 [valid for 12h0m0s]
  Extensions:         teleport-device-asset-tag, teleport-device-credential-id, teleport-device-id
```
The presence of the `teleport-device-*` extensions shows that the device was
successfully enrolled and authenticated. The device above is now a trusted device.

## Auto-Enrollment

Distributing enrollment tokens to many users can be challenging. To address that,
Teleport supports auto-enrollment. When enabled, auto-enrollment automatically
enrolls the user's device in their next Teleport (`tsh`) login.

For auto-enrollment to work, the following conditions must be met:
- A device must be registered. Registration may be
[manual](#register-a-trusted-device) or performed using an
integration, like the [Jamf Pro integration](./jamf-integration.mdx).
- Auto-enrollment must be enabled in the cluster setting.
- User must have either preset `editor` or `device-enroll` (available v13.3.6+) role assigned to them.

Enable auto-enrollment in your cluster settings:

<Tabs dropDownCaption="Teleport Deployment">
<TabItem label="Dynamic Resources" options="Self-Hosted,Teleport Enterprise Cloud" >
Modify the dynamic config resource using `tctl edit cluster_auth_preference`:

```diff
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  # ...
  device_trust:
    mode: "required"
+   auto_enroll: true
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Static Config" options="Self-Hosted">
Edit the Auth Server's `teleport.yaml` file:

```diff
auth_service:
  authentication:
    # ...
    device_trust:
+     auto_enroll: true
```

After saving the changes, restart the Teleport service.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once enabled, user's with their device registered in Teleport and with the required permission
(preset `editor` or `device-enroll` role) will have their device enrolled to Teleport in
their next login.

```code
$ tsh logout
All users logged out.
$ tsh login --proxy=(=clusterDefaults.clusterName=) --user=(=clusterDefaults.username=)
Enter password for Teleport user (=clusterDefaults.username=):
Tap any security key
Detected security key tap
> Profile URL:        (=clusterDefaults.clusterName=):443
  Logged in as:       (=clusterDefaults.username=)
  Cluster:            (=clusterDefaults.clusterName=)
  Roles:              access, editor
  Logins:             (=clusterDefaults.username=)
  Kubernetes:         enabled
  Valid until:        2023-06-23 02:47:05 -0300 -03 [valid for 12h0m0s]
  Extensions:         teleport-device-asset-tag, teleport-device-credential-id, teleport-device-id
```

The presence of the `teleport-device-*` extensions shows that the device was
successfully enrolled and authenticated.

## Remove a trusted device

A device that is no longer in use may be removed using `tctl devices rm
--device-id=<ID>` or `tctl devices rm --asset-tag=<SERIAL>`

First, find a device to delete:
```code
$ tctl devices ls
Asset Tag    OS    Enroll Status Device ID
------------ ----- ------------- ------------------------------------
C00AA0AAAA0A macOS enrolled      c9cbb327-68a8-497e-b820-6a4b2bf58269
```

Now use asset-tag or device id to delete a device:
```code
# Delete using asset tag:
$ tctl devices rm --asset-tag=C00AA0AAAA0A
Device "C00AA0AAAA0A" removed

# Delete using device id:
$ tctl devices rm --device-id=c9cbb327-68a8-497e-b820-6a4b2bf58269
Device "c9cbb327-68a8-497e-b820-6a4b2bf58269" removed
```

## Dedicated device admin role

We recommend creating a dedicated `device-admin` role for device inventory
management.

<Admonition type="tip" title="v13.3.6+">
  Teleport version 13.3.6 and above has the preset `device-admin` role, which
  is a substitute for the role described below.
</Admonition>

Following is an example of a role that grants permissions for the `device` resource is necessary to manage
the inventory. Save the yaml below as `device-admin.yaml`:

```yaml
version: v7
kind: role
metadata:
  name: device-admin
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources: ["device"]
      verbs:
      - create
      - read
      - list
      - update
      - delete
      - create_enroll_token
      - enroll
```

Create the role:

```code
$ tctl create -f device-admin.yaml
role 'device-admin' has been created
```

Note that in addition to the usual CRUD verbs (create, read, list, update and
delete), we have also included `create_enroll_token` and `enroll`. The
`create_enroll_token` verb is necessary to execute the `tctl devices enroll`
command; `enroll` is necessary to execute `tsh device enroll`.


## Configuring a TPM EKCert CA allow-list

This advice only applies to Device Trust on platforms that use TPMs, such as
Windows and Linux.

Some TPMs include a certificate—known as an EKCert—signed by the
manufacturer's certificate authority (CA). This certificate allows a third party
(such a Teleport cluster) to know that the TPM it is communicating with is
legitimate. This significantly reduces the burden on the administrator to ensure
that the device has not been tampered with prior to enrollment.

By default, the Teleport cluster does not verify the EKCert. This is because
not all TPMs include an EKCert, and it is not possible to verify an EKCert
without knowledge of the manufacturer's CA. This verification is enabled by the
inclusion of the Teleport configuration field called `ekcert_allowed_cas`.

Once configured, only devices that include a TPM with an EKCert signed by a
CA specified in the field will be able to enroll. Previously-enrolled devices
will not be affected.

To configure `ekcert_allowed_cas`, you must first obtain the CA certificate in
PEM format from the manufacturer of the TPM included in your devices. This step
varies from manufacturer to manufacturer.

After you obtain the CA certificate in PEM format, there are two ways of
configuring `ekcert_allowed_cas`:

- Statically using the Teleport configuration file. This is the simplest
  option, but is not possible for Teleport Cloud clusters and not recommended
  for clusters in a highly available configuration.
- Dynamically using `cluster_auth_preference` resource. This works with all
  clusters and is the most flexible.

<Tabs dropDownCaption="Teleport Deployment">
<TabItem label="Dynamic Resources" options="Self-Hosted,Teleport Enterprise Cloud" >
Modify the dynamic config resource using `tctl edit cluster_auth_preference`:

```diff
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  ...
  device_trust:
    mode: "required" # add this line
+    ekcert_allowed_cas:
+      # The CA is configured inline within the resource:
+      - |
+        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
+        --snip--
+        -----END CERTIFICATE-----
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Static Config" options="Self-Hosted">
Edit the Auth Server's `teleport.yaml` file and restart:

```diff
auth_service:
  authentication:
    ...
    device_trust:
+      ekcert_allowed_cas:
+      # The CA can be configured inline within the configuration file:
+      - |
+        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
+        --snip--
+        -----END CERTIFICATE-----
+      # Or, it can be configured in the configuration file using a path:
+      - /path/to/my/ekcert-ca.pem
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Troubleshooting

(!docs/pages/includes/device-trust/troubleshooting.mdx!)

## Next steps

- [Device Trust Enforcement](./enforcing-device-trust.mdx)
- [Jamf Pro Integration](./jamf-integration.mdx)

Commit message:

[v16] Document changes to auto-enroll since v16.1.1 (#45073)
* Document changes to auto-enroll since v16.1.1

* Change edit to an Admonition/tip

docs/pages/access-controls/device-trust/device-management.mdx, after:

---
title: Manage Trusted Devices
description: Learn how to manage Trusted Devices
---

### Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/device-trust/prereqs.mdx!)

## Register a trusted device

The `tctl` tool is used to manage the device inventory. A device admin is
responsible for managing devices, adding new devices to the inventory and
removing devices that are no longer in use.

<Admonition type="tip" title="Self enrollment: v13.3.5+">
  Users with the preset `editor` or `device-admin` role (since v13.3.6)
  can register and enroll their device in a single step with the following command:
  ```code
  $ tsh device enroll --current-device
  ```
</Admonition>

<Admonition type="tip" title="Sync with Jamf Pro">
Teleport supports device synchronization with [Jamf Pro](./jamf-integration.mdx). Once configured, devices
are automatically updated in Teleport's device inventory.
</Admonition>

Before you can enroll the device, you need to register it. To register
a device, you first need to determine its serial number.

Retrieve device serial number with `tsh` (must be run on the device you want to register):
```code
$ tsh device asset-tag
(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)
```

<Details title="Manually retrieving device serial" closed>
  <Tabs>
  <TabItem label="macOS">
    The serial number is visible under Apple menu -> "About This Mac" -> "Serial number".
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="Windows and Linux">
    Windows and Linux devices can have multiple serial numbers depending on the
    configuration made by the manufacturer.

    Teleport will pick the first available value from the following:
    - System asset tag
    - System serial number
    - Baseboard serial number

    To find the value chosen by Teleport, run the following command:

    ```code
    $ tsh device asset-tag
    (=devicetrust.asset_tag=)
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
</Details>


Replace <Var name="(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)" description="The serial number to
be registered"/> with the serial number of the device you wish to enroll and run
the `tctl devices add` command:

```code
$ tctl devices add --os='<Var name="macos"/>' --asset-tag='<Var name="(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)"/>'
Device <Var name="(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)"/>/macos added to the inventory
```

Use `tctl` to check that the device has been registered:

```code
$ tctl devices ls
Asset Tag    OS    Enroll Status Device ID
------------ ----- ------------- ------------------------------------
(=devicetrust.asset_tag=) macOS not enrolled  (=devicetrust.device_id=)
```

<Admonition type="warning" title="Device Role">
  For clusters created after v13.3.6, Teleport supports preset `device-admin` role to manage devices.

  For clusters created using Teleport v12 or newer, the preset `editor` role has
  the necessary permissions to manage devices. For clusters created before v12, you may want
  to create a dedicated [`device-admin`](#dedicated-device-admin-role) role.
</Admonition>

## Create a device enrollment token

A registered device becomes a trusted device after it goes through the
enrollment ceremony. To enroll the device, a device enrollment token is
necessary. The token is created by a device admin and sent to the person
performing the enrollment off-band (for example, via a corporate chat).

To create an enrollment token run the command below, where `--asset-tag` is
the serial number of the device we want to enroll:

```code
$ tctl devices enroll --asset-tag="(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)"
Run the command below on device "(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)" to enroll it:
tsh device enroll --token=(=devicetrust.enroll_token=)
```

## Enroll a trusted device

To perform the enrollment ceremony, using the device specified above, type the
command printed by `tctl devices enroll`:

```code
$ tsh device enroll --token=(=devicetrust.enroll_token=)
Device "(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)"/macOS enrolled

$ tsh logout
$ tsh login --proxy=(=clusterDefaults.clusterName=) --user=(=clusterDefaults.username=) # fetch new certificates
Enter password for Teleport user (=clusterDefaults.username=):
Tap any security key
Detected security key tap
> Profile URL:        (=clusterDefaults.clusterName=):443
  Logged in as:       (=clusterDefaults.username=)
  Cluster:            (=clusterDefaults.clusterName=)
  Roles:              access, editor
  Logins:             (=clusterDefaults.username=)
  Kubernetes:         enabled
  Valid until:        2023-06-23 02:47:05 -0300 -03 [valid for 12h0m0s]
  Extensions:         teleport-device-asset-tag, teleport-device-credential-id, teleport-device-id
```
The presence of the `teleport-device-*` extensions shows that the device was
successfully enrolled and authenticated. The device above is now a trusted device.

## Auto-Enrollment

Distributing enrollment tokens to many users can be challenging. To address that,
Teleport supports auto-enrollment. When enabled, auto-enrollment automatically
enrolls the user's device in their next Teleport (`tsh`) login.

For auto-enrollment to work, the following conditions must be met:
- A device must be registered. Registration may be
[manual](#register-a-trusted-device) or performed using an
integration, like the [Jamf Pro integration](./jamf-integration.mdx).
- Auto-enrollment must be enabled in the cluster setting.
- User must have either preset `editor` or `device-enroll` (available v13.3.6+) role assigned to them.

<Admonition type="tip">
  Since Teleport v16.1.1 users don't need the device/enroll permission to
  benefit from auto-enrollment.
</Admonition>

Enable auto-enrollment in your cluster settings:

<Tabs dropDownCaption="Teleport Deployment">
<TabItem label="Dynamic Resources" options="Self-Hosted,Teleport Enterprise Cloud" >
Modify the dynamic config resource using `tctl edit cluster_auth_preference`:

```diff
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  # ...
  device_trust:
    mode: "required"
+   auto_enroll: true
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Static Config" options="Self-Hosted">
Edit the Auth Server's `teleport.yaml` file:

```diff
auth_service:
  authentication:
    # ...
    device_trust:
+     auto_enroll: true
```

After saving the changes, restart the Teleport service.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once enabled, users with their device registered in Teleport will have their
device enrolled to Teleport in their next login.

```code
$ tsh logout
All users logged out.
$ tsh login --proxy=(=clusterDefaults.clusterName=) --user=(=clusterDefaults.username=)
Enter password for Teleport user (=clusterDefaults.username=):
Tap any security key
Detected security key tap
> Profile URL:        (=clusterDefaults.clusterName=):443
  Logged in as:       (=clusterDefaults.username=)
  Cluster:            (=clusterDefaults.clusterName=)
  Roles:              access, editor
  Logins:             (=clusterDefaults.username=)
  Kubernetes:         enabled
  Valid until:        2023-06-23 02:47:05 -0300 -03 [valid for 12h0m0s]
  Extensions:         teleport-device-asset-tag, teleport-device-credential-id, teleport-device-id
```

The presence of the `teleport-device-*` extensions shows that the device was
successfully enrolled and authenticated.

## Remove a trusted device

A device that is no longer in use may be removed using `tctl devices rm
--device-id=<ID>` or `tctl devices rm --asset-tag=<SERIAL>`

First, find a device to delete:
```code
$ tctl devices ls
Asset Tag    OS    Enroll Status Device ID
------------ ----- ------------- ------------------------------------
C00AA0AAAA0A macOS enrolled      c9cbb327-68a8-497e-b820-6a4b2bf58269
```

Now use asset-tag or device id to delete a device:
```code
# Delete using asset tag:
$ tctl devices rm --asset-tag=C00AA0AAAA0A
Device "C00AA0AAAA0A" removed

# Delete using device id:
$ tctl devices rm --device-id=c9cbb327-68a8-497e-b820-6a4b2bf58269
Device "c9cbb327-68a8-497e-b820-6a4b2bf58269" removed
```

## Dedicated device admin role

We recommend creating a dedicated `device-admin` role for device inventory
management.

<Admonition type="tip" title="v13.3.6+">
  Teleport version 13.3.6 and above has the preset `device-admin` role, which
  is a substitute for the role described below.
</Admonition>

Following is an example of a role that grants permissions for the `device` resource is necessary to manage
the inventory. Save the yaml below as `device-admin.yaml`:

```yaml
version: v7
kind: role
metadata:
  name: device-admin
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources: ["device"]
      verbs:
      - create
      - read
      - list
      - update
      - delete
      - create_enroll_token
      - enroll
```

Create the role:

```code
$ tctl create -f device-admin.yaml
role 'device-admin' has been created
```

Note that in addition to the usual CRUD verbs (create, read, list, update and
delete), we have also included `create_enroll_token` and `enroll`. The
`create_enroll_token` verb is necessary to execute the `tctl devices enroll`
command; `enroll` is necessary to execute `tsh device enroll`.


## Configuring a TPM EKCert CA allow-list

This advice only applies to Device Trust on platforms that use TPMs, such as
Windows and Linux.

Some TPMs include a certificate—known as an EKCert—signed by the
manufacturer's certificate authority (CA). This certificate allows a third party
(such a Teleport cluster) to know that the TPM it is communicating with is
legitimate. This significantly reduces the burden on the administrator to ensure
that the device has not been tampered with prior to enrollment.

By default, the Teleport cluster does not verify the EKCert. This is because
not all TPMs include an EKCert, and it is not possible to verify an EKCert
without knowledge of the manufacturer's CA. This verification is enabled by the
inclusion of the Teleport configuration field called `ekcert_allowed_cas`.

Once configured, only devices that include a TPM with an EKCert signed by a
CA specified in the field will be able to enroll. Previously-enrolled devices
will not be affected.

To configure `ekcert_allowed_cas`, you must first obtain the CA certificate in
PEM format from the manufacturer of the TPM included in your devices. This step
varies from manufacturer to manufacturer.

After you obtain the CA certificate in PEM format, there are two ways of
configuring `ekcert_allowed_cas`:

- Statically using the Teleport configuration file. This is the simplest
  option, but is not possible for Teleport Cloud clusters and not recommended
  for clusters in a highly available configuration.
- Dynamically using `cluster_auth_preference` resource. This works with all
  clusters and is the most flexible.

<Tabs dropDownCaption="Teleport Deployment">
<TabItem label="Dynamic Resources" options="Self-Hosted,Teleport Enterprise Cloud" >
Modify the dynamic config resource using `tctl edit cluster_auth_preference`:

```diff
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  ...
  device_trust:
    mode: "required" # add this line
+    ekcert_allowed_cas:
+      # The CA is configured inline within the resource:
+      - |
+        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
+        --snip--
+        -----END CERTIFICATE-----
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Static Config" options="Self-Hosted">
Edit the Auth Server's `teleport.yaml` file and restart:

```diff
auth_service:
  authentication:
    ...
    device_trust:
+      ekcert_allowed_cas:
+      # The CA can be configured inline within the configuration file:
+      - |
+        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
+        --snip--
+        -----END CERTIFICATE-----
+      # Or, it can be configured in the configuration file using a path:
+      - /path/to/my/ekcert-ca.pem
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Troubleshooting

(!docs/pages/includes/device-trust/troubleshooting.mdx!)

## Next steps

- [Device Trust Enforcement](./enforcing-device-trust.mdx)
- [Jamf Pro Integration](./jamf-integration.mdx)
