docs/pages/access-controls/device-trust/guide.mdx, before:

---
title: Set Up Device Trust (Preview)
description: Learn how to use and enforce trusted devices with Teleport
videoBanner: gBQyj_X1LVw
---

<Admonition type="warning">
Device Trust is currently in Preview mode.
</Admonition>

## Concepts

Device Trust leverages dedicated secure hardware in devices to store sensitive
credentials. The specific implementation varies between types of devices.

On macOS devices, Device Trust uses the Secure Enclave in order to store a
device private key. That key is used to solve device challenges issued by the
Teleport Auth Server, proving the identity of the trusted device.

On Windows devices, a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) is used to perform an
attestation as to the state of the device. This attestation is signed by a
private key that is also protected by the TPM. The signed attestation ensures
that the Teleport Auth Server knows both the state of the device and that the
request has come from the device.

Device management is divided into two separate phases: inventory management and
device enrollment.

**Inventory management** is performed by a device admin. In this step, devices
are registered or removed from Teleport. For example, this happens when the IT
department of your company acquires new devices, or retires devices from use.

**Device enrollment** is performed either by a device admin or by the end-user,
at your discretion. This is the step that creates the Secure Enclave private key
in the device and register its public key counterpart with the Teleport Auth
Server. Enrollment has to run in the actual device that you want to enroll. For
example, this happens when a user gets a new device for the first time, or when
IT prepares a new device for a user. Enrollment only needs to happen once per
user/device combination.

<Admonition type="tip" title="Enrollment">
Device enrollment is key in correctly identifying a device throughout its
lifetime. The more trusted the enrollment operator, the better the ongoing
guarantees that the device itself is trustworthy.
</Admonition>

The tie between the device inventory and enrollment is a device enrollment
token. A device enrollment token needs to be created by a device admin and sent
to the person performing the enrollment ceremony. The token ties the actual
device being enrolled to the expected device in the inventory, adding an extra
layer of protection.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- To enroll a macOS device, you need:
  - A signed and notarized `tsh` binary for enrollment.
    [Download the macOS tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#macos).
  - A Teleport version newer than v12.0.0.
- To enroll a Windows device, you need:
  - A device that includes a TPM with 2.0 support.
  - `tsh` installed on the device. [Download the Windows tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#windows-tsh-client-only).
  - Credentials for a user with administrator privileges for the device. This is only required during enrollment.
  - A Teleport version newer than v13.1.2.

## Step 1/2. Register a trusted device

The `tctl` tool is used to manage the device inventory. A device admin is
responsible for managing devices, adding new devices to the inventory and
removing devices that are no longer in use.

A role that grants permissions for the `device` resource is necessary to manage
the inventory. Save the yaml below as `device-admin.yaml` and create it in your
cluster:

```yaml
version: v6
kind: role
metadata:
  name: device-admin
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources: ["device"]
      verbs:
      - create
      - read
      - list
      - update
      - delete
      - create_enroll_token
      - enroll
```

```code
$ tctl create -f device-admin.yaml
role 'device-admin' has been created
```

<Admonition type="tip" title="Editor Role">
For clusters created using Teleport v12 or newer, the builtin role `editor` has
the necessary permissions to manage devices. For production setups a separate
role is still recommended.
</Admonition>

Note that in addition to the usual CRUD verbs (create, read, list, update and
delete), we have also included `create_enroll_token` and `enroll`. The
`create_enroll_token` verb is necessary to execute the `tctl devices enroll`
command; `enroll` is necessary to execute `tsh device enroll`. Both are
demonstrated in the following section.

Make sure your user has the `device-admin` role:

```code
$ tctl edit users/alice
```

```diff
kind: user
metadata:
  name: alice
  # unrelated fields omitted.
spec:
  roles:
  - access
+ - device-admin # add this line
version: v2
```

Relogin to fetch updated certificates:

```code
$ tsh logout; tsh login --proxy=example.com --user=alice
```

Before you can enroll the device, you need to register it. To register
a device, you first need to determine its serial number.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="macOS">
    The serial number of a macOS device can be determined in two ways.

    Through the UI, visible under Apple -> "About This Mac" -> "Serial number".

    Through the terminal:
    ```code
    $ ioreg -c IOPlatformExpertDevice -d 2 | grep -i IOPlatformSerialNumber | awk -F'"' '{print $4}'
    (=devicetrust.asset_tag=)
    ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="Windows">
    Determining the serial number for a device running Windows is a little more
    complicated than on macOS. This is because Windows devices can have multiple
    serial numbers depending on the configuration made by the manufacturer.

    Teleport will pick the first available value from the following:

    - System asset tag
    - System serial number
    - Baseboard serial number

    To find the value chosen by Teleport, run the following command:

    ```code
    $ tsh device collect
    DeviceCollectedData {
      ...
      "serial_number": "(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)",
      ...
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Replace the `$SERIAL` variable below with the serial number obtained from
the device you wish to enroll and `$OS` with `macos` or `windows`, and execute
the following command:

```code
$ export OS=macos
$ export SERIAL="(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)"
$ tctl devices add --os="$OS" --asset-tag="$SERIAL"
Device (=devicetrust.asset_tag=)/macOS added to the inventory
```

Use `tctl` to check that the device has been registered:

```code
$ tctl devices ls
Asset Tag    OS    Enroll Status Device ID
------------ ----- ------------- ------------------------------------
(=devicetrust.asset_tag=) macOS not enrolled  (=devicetrust.device_id=)
```

<Admonition type="tip" title="Removing Devices">
A device that is no longer in use may be removed using `tctl devices rm
--device-id=<ID>` or `tctl devices rm --asset-tag=<SERIAL>`.
</Admonition>

## Step 2/2. Enroll a trusted device

A registered device becomes a trusted device after it goes through the
enrollment ceremony. Enrollment exchanges an enrollment token, created by a
device admin, for the opportunity to enroll the corresponding device.

A device enrollment is specifically linked to the user who performed the
enrollment. If the same device is handed to a new user, that user must enroll
the device again.

To create an enrollment token run the following command, where `--asset-tag` is
the serial number of the device we want to enroll.

```code
$ tctl devices enroll --asset-tag="(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)"
Run the command below on device "(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)" to enroll it:
tsh device enroll --token=(=devicetrust.enroll_token=)
```

To perform the enrollment ceremony, using the device specified above, type the
command printed by `tctl devices enroll`:

```code
$ tsh device enroll --token=(=devicetrust.enroll_token=)
Device "(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)"/macOS enrolled

$ tsh logout; tsh login --proxy=example.com --user=alice # fetch new certificates
```

<Admonition type="warning" title="Windows">
On Windows, the `tsh device enroll` command attempts to elevate to
administrator privileges on the device. Privilege elevation is required to
perform a TPM Credential Activation. This step is only required for
enrollment and is not required on future device authentications.
</Admonition>

The device above is now a trusted device.

## Recommended: Configuring a TPM EKCert CA allow-list

This advice only applies to Device Trust on platforms that use TPMs. For now,
this is just Windows.

Some TPMs include a certificate—known as an EKCert—signed by the
manufacturer's certificate authority (CA). This certificate allows a third party
(such a Teleport cluster) to know that the TPM it is communicating with is
legitimate. This significantly reduces the burden on the administrator to ensure
that the device has not been tampered with prior to enrollment.

By default, the Teleport cluster does not verify the EKCert. This is because
not all TPMs include an EKCert, and it is not possible to verify an EKCert
without knowledge of the manufacturer's CA. This verification is enabled by the
inclusion of the Teleport configuration field called `ekcert_allowed_cas`.

Once configured, only devices that include a TPM with an EKCert signed by a
CA specified in the field will be able to enroll. Previously-enrolled devices
will not be affected.

To configure `ekcert_allowed_cas`, you must first obtain the CA certificate in
PEM format from the manufacturer of the TPM included in your devices. This step
varies from manufacturer to manufacturer.

After you obtain the CA certificate in PEM format, there are two ways of
configuring `ekcert_allowed_cas`:

- Statically using the Teleport configuration file. This is the simplest
  option, but is not possible for Teleport Cloud clusters and not recommended
  for clusters in a highly available configuration.
- Dynamically using `cluster_auth_preference` resource. This works with all
  clusters and is the most flexible.

<Tabs dropDownCaption="Teleport Deployment">
<TabItem label="Dynamic Resources" options="Self-Hosted,Teleport Enterprise Cloud" >
Modify the dynamic config resource using `tctl edit cluster_auth_preference`:

```diff
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  ...
  device_trust:
    mode: "required" # add this line
+    ekcert_allowed_cas:
+      # The CA is configured inline within the resource:
+      - |
+        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
+        --snip--
+        -----END CERTIFICATE-----
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Static Config" options="Self-Hosted">
Edit the Auth Server's `teleport.yaml` file and restart:

```diff
auth_service:
  authentication:
    ...
    device_trust:
+      ekcert_allowed_cas:
+      # The CA can be configured inline within the configuration file:
+      - |
+        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
+        --snip--
+        -----END CERTIFICATE-----
+      # Or, it can be configured in the configuration file using a path:
+      - /path/to/my/ekcert-ca.pem
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Optional: Cluster-wide trusted device enforcement

Cluster-wide configuration enforces trusted device access at the cluster level.
It can be configured with the following three modes of operation, represented
by the `device_trust.mode` authentication setting:

- `off` - disables device trust. Device authentication is not performed and
  device-aware audit logs are absent.
- `optional` - enables device authentication and device-aware audit, but does not
  require a trusted device to access resources.
- `required` - enables device authentication and device-aware audit.
  Additionally, it requires a trusted device for all SSH, Database and
  Kubernetes connections.

Enterprise clusters run in `optional` mode by default. Changing the mode to
`required` will enforce a trusted device for all SSH, Database and Kubernetes
accesses.

<Admonition type="warning" title="Web UI">
The Web UI is not capable of trusted device access during the device trust
preview. Only `tsh` and Teleport Connect are able to fulfill device mode
`required`.
</Admonition>

To enable device mode `required` update your configuration as follows:

<Tabs dropDownCaption="Teleport Deployment">
<TabItem label="Dynamic Resources" options="Self-Hosted,Teleport Enterprise Cloud" >
Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
`tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

```diff
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.com
  device_trust:
+   mode: "required" # add this line
```

Update the configuration:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
cluster auth preference has been updated
```

You can also edit this configuration directly:

```code
$ tctl edit cluster_auth_preference
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Static Config" options="Self-Hosted">
Edit the Auth Server's `teleport.yaml` file and restart all Auth Services:

```diff
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: local
    second_factor: "on"
    webauthn:
      rp_id: example.com
    device_trust:
+     mode: "required" # add this line
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

SSH, Database and Kubernetes access without a trusted device is now forbidden.
For example, SSH access without a trusted device fails with the following error:

```code
$ tsh ssh server1
ERROR: ssh: rejected: administratively prohibited (unauthorized device)
```

<Admonition type="tip" title="Trusted Clusters">
It is possible to use [trusted
clusters](../../management/admin/trustedclusters.mdx) to limit the impact of
device mode `required`. A leaf cluster in mode `required` will enforce access to
all of its resources, without imposing the same restrictions to the root
cluster. Likewise, a root cluster will not enforce device trust on resources in
leaf clusters.
</Admonition>

## Optional: Role-based trusted device enforcement

Role-based configuration enforces trusted device access at the role level. It
can be configured with the `spec.options.device_trust_mode` (`required`,
`optional`, `off`) option and applies to the resources in its `allow` rules. It
works similar to [`require_session_mfa`](../guides/per-session-mfa.mdx).

To enforce authenticated device checks for a specific role, update the role with the following:

```diff
kind: role
version: v6
metadata:
  name: example-role
spec:
  options:
    # require authenticated device check for this role
+   device_trust_mode: "required" # add this line
  allow:
    logins: ['admin']
    kubernetes_groups: ['edit']
    node_labels:
      '*': '*'
    ...

```

<Admonition type="tip" title="Per-role vs. Cluster-wide">
Per-role configuration let's you progressively block unauthorized device access,
and is useful for getting started with Teleport Device Trust.

Once all the devices used are enrolled in Teleport, cluster-wide
configuration will ensure every resources can only ever be accessed with a
trusted device.
</Admonition>

## Optional: Locking a device

Similar to [session and identity locking](../guides/locking.mdx), a device can
be locked using `tctl lock`.

Locking blocks certificate issuance and ongoing or future accesses originating
from a locked device. Locking a device only works if device trust is enabled and
if the device is enrolled to Teleport.

Find a device ID to lock:

```code
$ tctl devices ls
Asset Tag     OS    Enroll Status   Device ID
------------ -----  ------------- ------------------------------------
(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)  macOS  enrolled     (=devicetrust.device_id=)
```

Lock a device:

```code
$ tctl lock --device (=devicetrust.device_id=) --ttl=12h
Created a lock with name "5444970a-39a0-4814-968d-e58b4a8fa686".
```

Now, if a user on that device tries to access an SSH server for example, Teleport will deny access:

```code
$ tsh ssh server1
ERROR: ssh: rejected: administratively prohibited (lock targeting Device:"(=devicetrust.device_id=)" is in force)
```

## Troubleshooting

### "binary missing signature or entitlements" on `tsh device enroll`

A signed and notarized `tsh` binary is necessary to enroll and use a a trusted
device. [Download the macOS tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#macos) to fix
the problem.

### "unauthorized device" errors using a trusted device

A signed and notarized `tsh` binary is necessary to use a trusted device. Make
sure to download and use the
[macOS tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#macos).

A trusted device needs to be registered and enrolled before it is recognized by
Teleport as such. Follow the [registration](#step-12-register-a-trusted-device)
and [enrollment steps](#step-22-enroll-a-trusted-device) and make sure to `tsh
logout` and `tsh login` after enrollment is done.

Commit message:

update device trust guide (#28365) (#28523)
This update adds scope to the page, uses the standard partial to add a new group to a user, and uses the Var component to describe registering a device.

docs/pages/access-controls/device-trust/guide.mdx, after:

---
title: Set Up Device Trust (Preview)
description: Learn how to use and enforce trusted devices with Teleport
videoBanner: gBQyj_X1LVw
---

<Admonition type="warning">
Device Trust is currently in Preview mode.
</Admonition>

## Concepts

Device Trust leverages dedicated secure hardware in devices to store sensitive
credentials. The specific implementation varies between types of devices.

On macOS devices, Device Trust uses the Secure Enclave in order to store a
device private key. That key is used to solve device challenges issued by the
Teleport Auth Server, proving the identity of the trusted device.

On Windows devices, a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) is used to perform an
attestation as to the state of the device. This attestation is signed by a
private key that is also protected by the TPM. The signed attestation ensures
that the Teleport Auth Server knows both the state of the device and that the
request has come from the device.

Device management is divided into two separate phases: inventory management and
device enrollment.

**Inventory management** is performed by a device admin. In this step, devices
are registered or removed from Teleport. For example, this happens when the IT
department of your company acquires new devices, or retires devices from use.

**Device enrollment** is performed either by a device admin or by the end-user,
at your discretion. This is the step that creates the Secure Enclave private key
in the device and register its public key counterpart with the Teleport Auth
Server. Enrollment has to run in the actual device that you want to enroll. For
example, this happens when a user gets a new device for the first time, or when
IT prepares a new device for a user. Enrollment only needs to happen once per
user/device combination.

<Admonition type="tip" title="Enrollment">
Device enrollment is key in correctly identifying a device throughout its
lifetime. The more trusted the enrollment operator, the better the ongoing
guarantees that the device itself is trustworthy.
</Admonition>

The tie between the device inventory and enrollment is a device enrollment
token. A device enrollment token needs to be created by a device admin and sent
to the person performing the enrollment ceremony. The token ties the actual
device being enrolled to the expected device in the inventory, adding an extra
layer of protection.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- To enroll a macOS device, you need:
  - A signed and notarized `tsh` binary for enrollment.
    [Download the macOS tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#macos).
  - A Teleport version newer than v12.0.0.
- To enroll a Windows device, you need:
  - A device that includes a TPM with 2.0 support.
  - `tsh` installed on the device. [Download the Windows tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#windows-tsh-client-only).
  - Credentials for a user with administrator privileges for the device. This is only required during enrollment.
  - A Teleport version newer than v13.1.2.

## Step 1/2. Register a trusted device

The `tctl` tool is used to manage the device inventory. A device admin is
responsible for managing devices, adding new devices to the inventory and
removing devices that are no longer in use.

A role that grants permissions for the `device` resource is necessary to manage
the inventory. Save the yaml below as `device-admin.yaml` and create it in your
cluster:

```yaml
version: v6
kind: role
metadata:
  name: device-admin
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources: ["device"]
      verbs:
      - create
      - read
      - list
      - update
      - delete
      - create_enroll_token
      - enroll
```

```code
$ tctl create -f device-admin.yaml
role 'device-admin' has been created
```

<Admonition type="tip" title="Editor Role">
For clusters created using Teleport v12 or newer, the builtin role `editor` has
the necessary permissions to manage devices. For production setups a separate
role is still recommended.
</Admonition>

Note that in addition to the usual CRUD verbs (create, read, list, update and
delete), we have also included `create_enroll_token` and `enroll`. The
`create_enroll_token` verb is necessary to execute the `tctl devices enroll`
command; `enroll` is necessary to execute `tsh device enroll`. Both are
demonstrated in the following section.

Make sure your user has the `device-admin` role:

(!/docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx role="device-admin"!)

Relogin to fetch updated certificates:

```code
$ tsh logout; tsh login --proxy=example.com --user=alice
```

Before you can enroll the device, you need to register it. To register
a device, you first need to determine its serial number.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="macOS">
    The serial number of a macOS device can be determined in two ways.

    Through the UI, visible under Apple -> "About This Mac" -> "Serial number".

    Through the terminal:
    ```code
    $ ioreg -c IOPlatformExpertDevice -d 2 | grep -i IOPlatformSerialNumber | awk -F'"' '{print $4}'
    (=devicetrust.asset_tag=)
    ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="Windows">
    Determining the serial number for a device running Windows is a little more
    complicated than on macOS. This is because Windows devices can have multiple
    serial numbers depending on the configuration made by the manufacturer.

    Teleport will pick the first available value from the following:

    - System asset tag
    - System serial number
    - Baseboard serial number

    To find the value chosen by Teleport, run the following command:

    ```code
    $ tsh device collect
    DeviceCollectedData {
      ...
      "serial_number": "(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)",
      ...
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Replace <Var name="(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)" description="The serial number to be registered"/>
with the serial number obtained from the device you wish to enroll and <Var name="OS" description="The OS of the device being registered"/>
with `macos` or `windows`, and execute the following command:

```code
$ tctl devices add --os="<Var name="OS"/> --asset-tag=<Var name="(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)"/>"
Device <Var name="(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)"/>/<Var name="OS"/> added to the inventory
```

Use `tctl` to check that the device has been registered:

```code
$ tctl devices ls
Asset Tag    OS    Enroll Status Device ID
------------ ----- ------------- ------------------------------------
(=devicetrust.asset_tag=) macOS not enrolled  (=devicetrust.device_id=)
```

<Admonition type="tip" title="Removing Devices">
A device that is no longer in use may be removed using `tctl devices rm
--device-id=<ID>` or `tctl devices rm --asset-tag=<SERIAL>`.
</Admonition>

## Step 2/2. Enroll a trusted device

A registered device becomes a trusted device after it goes through the
enrollment ceremony. Enrollment exchanges an enrollment token, created by a
device admin, for the opportunity to enroll the corresponding device.

A device enrollment is specifically linked to the user who performed the
enrollment. If the same device is handed to a new user, that user must enroll
the device again.

To create an enrollment token run the following command, where `--asset-tag` is
the serial number of the device we want to enroll.

```code
$ tctl devices enroll --asset-tag="(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)"
Run the command below on device "(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)" to enroll it:
tsh device enroll --token=(=devicetrust.enroll_token=)
```

To perform the enrollment ceremony, using the device specified above, type the
command printed by `tctl devices enroll`:

```code
$ tsh device enroll --token=(=devicetrust.enroll_token=)
Device "(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)"/macOS enrolled

$ tsh logout; tsh login --proxy=example.com --user=alice # fetch new certificates
```

<Admonition type="warning" title="Windows">
On Windows, the `tsh device enroll` command attempts to elevate to
administrator privileges on the device. Privilege elevation is required to
perform a TPM Credential Activation. This step is only required for
enrollment and is not required on future device authentications.
</Admonition>

The device above is now a trusted device.

## Recommended: Configuring a TPM EKCert CA allow-list

This advice only applies to Device Trust on platforms that use TPMs. For now,
this is just Windows.

Some TPMs include a certificate—known as an EKCert—signed by the
manufacturer's certificate authority (CA). This certificate allows a third party
(such a Teleport cluster) to know that the TPM it is communicating with is
legitimate. This significantly reduces the burden on the administrator to ensure
that the device has not been tampered with prior to enrollment.

By default, the Teleport cluster does not verify the EKCert. This is because
not all TPMs include an EKCert, and it is not possible to verify an EKCert
without knowledge of the manufacturer's CA. This verification is enabled by the
inclusion of the Teleport configuration field called `ekcert_allowed_cas`.

Once configured, only devices that include a TPM with an EKCert signed by a
CA specified in the field will be able to enroll. Previously-enrolled devices
will not be affected.

To configure `ekcert_allowed_cas`, you must first obtain the CA certificate in
PEM format from the manufacturer of the TPM included in your devices. This step
varies from manufacturer to manufacturer.

After you obtain the CA certificate in PEM format, there are two ways of
configuring `ekcert_allowed_cas`:

- Statically using the Teleport configuration file. This is the simplest
  option, but is not possible for Teleport Cloud clusters and not recommended
  for clusters in a highly available configuration.
- Dynamically using `cluster_auth_preference` resource. This works with all
  clusters and is the most flexible.

<Tabs dropDownCaption="Teleport Deployment">
<TabItem label="Dynamic Resources" options="Self-Hosted,Teleport Enterprise Cloud" >
Modify the dynamic config resource using `tctl edit cluster_auth_preference`:

```diff
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  ...
  device_trust:
    mode: "required" # add this line
+    ekcert_allowed_cas:
+      # The CA is configured inline within the resource:
+      - |
+        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
+        --snip--
+        -----END CERTIFICATE-----
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Static Config" options="Self-Hosted">
Edit the Auth Server's `teleport.yaml` file and restart:

```diff
auth_service:
  authentication:
    ...
    device_trust:
+      ekcert_allowed_cas:
+      # The CA can be configured inline within the configuration file:
+      - |
+        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
+        --snip--
+        -----END CERTIFICATE-----
+      # Or, it can be configured in the configuration file using a path:
+      - /path/to/my/ekcert-ca.pem
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Optional: Cluster-wide trusted device enforcement

Cluster-wide configuration enforces trusted device access at the cluster level.
It can be configured with the following three modes of operation, represented
by the `device_trust.mode` authentication setting:

- `off` - disables device trust. Device authentication is not performed and
  device-aware audit logs are absent.
- `optional` - enables device authentication and device-aware audit, but does not
  require a trusted device to access resources.
- `required` - enables device authentication and device-aware audit.
  Additionally, it requires a trusted device for all SSH, Database and
  Kubernetes connections.

Enterprise clusters run in `optional` mode by default. Changing the mode to
`required` will enforce a trusted device for all SSH, Database and Kubernetes
accesses.

<Admonition type="warning" title="Web UI">
The Web UI is not capable of trusted device access during the device trust
preview. Only `tsh` and Teleport Connect are able to fulfill device mode
`required`.
</Admonition>

To enable device mode `required` update your configuration as follows:

<Tabs dropDownCaption="Teleport Deployment">
<TabItem label="Dynamic Resources" options="Self-Hosted,Teleport Enterprise Cloud" >
Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
`tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

```diff
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.com
  device_trust:
+   mode: "required" # add this line
```

Update the configuration:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
cluster auth preference has been updated
```

You can also edit this configuration directly:

```code
$ tctl edit cluster_auth_preference
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Static Config" options="Self-Hosted">
Edit the Auth Server's `teleport.yaml` file and restart all Auth Services:

```diff
auth_service:
  authentication:
    type: local
    second_factor: "on"
    webauthn:
      rp_id: example.com
    device_trust:
+     mode: "required" # add this line
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

SSH, Database and Kubernetes access without a trusted device is now forbidden.
For example, SSH access without a trusted device fails with the following error:

```code
$ tsh ssh server1
ERROR: ssh: rejected: administratively prohibited (unauthorized device)
```

<Admonition type="tip" title="Trusted Clusters">
It is possible to use [trusted
clusters](../../management/admin/trustedclusters.mdx) to limit the impact of
device mode `required`. A leaf cluster in mode `required` will enforce access to
all of its resources, without imposing the same restrictions to the root
cluster. Likewise, a root cluster will not enforce device trust on resources in
leaf clusters.
</Admonition>

## Optional: Role-based trusted device enforcement

Role-based configuration enforces trusted device access at the role level. It
can be configured with the `spec.options.device_trust_mode` (`required`,
`optional`, `off`) option and applies to the resources in its `allow` rules. It
works similar to [`require_session_mfa`](../guides/per-session-mfa.mdx).

To enforce authenticated device checks for a specific role, update the role with the following:

```diff
kind: role
version: v6
metadata:
  name: example-role
spec:
  options:
    # require authenticated device check for this role
+   device_trust_mode: "required" # add this line
  allow:
    logins: ['admin']
    kubernetes_groups: ['edit']
    node_labels:
      '*': '*'
    ...

```

<Admonition type="tip" title="Per-role vs. Cluster-wide">
Per-role configuration let's you progressively block unauthorized device access,
and is useful for getting started with Teleport Device Trust.

Once all the devices used are enrolled in Teleport, cluster-wide
configuration will ensure every resources can only ever be accessed with a
trusted device.
</Admonition>

## Optional: Locking a device

Similar to [session and identity locking](../guides/locking.mdx), a device can
be locked using `tctl lock`.

Locking blocks certificate issuance and ongoing or future accesses originating
from a locked device. Locking a device only works if device trust is enabled and
if the device is enrolled to Teleport.

Find a device ID to lock:

```code
$ tctl devices ls
Asset Tag     OS    Enroll Status   Device ID
------------ -----  ------------- ------------------------------------
(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)  macOS  enrolled     (=devicetrust.device_id=)
```

Lock a device:

```code
$ tctl lock --device (=devicetrust.device_id=) --ttl=12h
Created a lock with name "5444970a-39a0-4814-968d-e58b4a8fa686".
```

Now, if a user on that device tries to access an SSH server for example, Teleport will deny access:

```code
$ tsh ssh server1
ERROR: ssh: rejected: administratively prohibited (lock targeting Device:"(=devicetrust.device_id=)" is in force)
```

## Troubleshooting

### "binary missing signature or entitlements" on `tsh device enroll`

A signed and notarized `tsh` binary is necessary to enroll and use a a trusted
device. [Download the macOS tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#macos) to fix
the problem.

### "unauthorized device" errors using a trusted device

A signed and notarized `tsh` binary is necessary to use a trusted device. Make
sure to download and use the
[macOS tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#macos).

A trusted device needs to be registered and enrolled before it is recognized by
Teleport as such. Follow the [registration](#step-12-register-a-trusted-device)
and [enrollment steps](#step-22-enroll-a-trusted-device) and make sure to `tsh
logout` and `tsh login` after enrollment is done.
