docs/pages/includes/helm-reference/zz_generated.tbot.mdx, before:


{/* Generated file. Do not edit.*/}
{/* Generate this file by navigating to examples/chart and running  make render-chart-ref*/}
## `image`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `"public.ecr.aws/gravitational/tbot-distroless"` |

`image` sets the container image used for tbot pods created by this
chart.

You can override this to use your own tbot image rather than a
Teleport-published image.

## `clusterName`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `""` |

`clusterName` should be the name of the Teleport cluster that your
Bot will join. You can retrieve it by running `tctl status`.

For example: `clusterName: "test.teleport.sh"`

## `teleportProxyAddress`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `""` |

`teleportProxyAddress` is the teleport Proxy Service address the bot will connect to.
This must contain the port number, usually 443 or 3080 for Proxy Service.
Connecting to the Proxy Service is the most common and recommended way to connect to Teleport.
This is mandatory to connect to Teleport Enterprise (Cloud)

This setting is mutually exclusive with teleportProxyAddress and is ignored if `customConfig` is set.

For example:
```yaml
teleportProxyAddress: "test.teleport.sh:443"
```

## `teleportAuthAddress`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `""` |

`teleportAuthAddress` is the teleport Auth Service address the bot will connect to.
This must contain the port number, usually 3025 for Auth Service. Direct Auth Service connection
should be used when you are deploying the bot in the same Kubernetes cluster than your `teleport-cluster`
Helm release and have direct access to the Auth Service.
Else, you should prefer connecting via the Proxy Service.

This setting is mutually exclusive with teleportProxyAddress and is ignored if `customConfig` is set.

For example:
```yaml
teleportAuthAddress: "teleport-auth.teleport-namespace.svc.cluster.local:3025"
```

## `defaultOutput`

`defaultOutput` controls the default output configured for the tbot agent.
Ignored if `customConfig` is set.

### `defaultOutput.enabled`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `bool` | `true` |

`defaultOutput.enabled` controls whether the default output is enabled.

## `persistence`

`persistence` controls how the tbot agent stores its data.

Options:
- "secret": uses a Kubernetes Secret.
- "disabled": does not persist data. May impact ability to track bot
   deployment across its lifetime.

## `tbotConfig`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`tbotConfig` contains YAML teleport configuration to pass to the
tbot pods. The configuration will be merged with the chart-generated
configuration and will take precedence in case of conflict. Try to prefer to
use the more specific configuration values throughout this chart.

## `outputs`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `list` | `[]` |

`outputs` contains additional outputs to configure for the tbot agent.
These should be in the same format as the `outputs` field in the tbot.yaml.
Ignored if `customConfig` is set.

## `services`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `list` | `[]` |

`services` contains additional services to configure for the tbot agent.
These should be in the same format as the `services` field in the tbot.yaml.
Ignored if `customConfig` is set.

## `joinMethod`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `"kubernetes"` |

`joinMethod` describes how tbot joins the Teleport cluster.
See [the join method reference](../../reference/join-methods.mdx) for a list fo supported values and detailed explanations.
Ignored if `customConfig` is set.

## `token`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `""` |

`token` is the name of the token used by tbot to join the Teleport cluster.
This value is not sensitive unless the `joinMethod` is set to `"token"`.
Ignored if `customConfig` is set.

## `teleportVersionOverride`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `""` |

`teleportVersionOverride` controls the tbot image version deployed by
the chart.

Normally, the version of tbot matches the version of the chart. If you install
chart version 15.0.0, you'll use tbot version 15.0.0. Upgrading tbot is done
by upgrading the chart.

<Admonition type="warning">
`teleportVersionOverride` is intended for development and MUST NOT be
used to control the Teleport version in a typical deployment. This
chart is designed to run a specific Teleport version. You will face
compatibility issues trying to run a different Teleport version with it.

If you want to run Teleport version `X.Y.Z`, you should use
`helm install --version X.Y.Z` instead.

</Admonition>

## `anonymousTelemetry`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `bool` | `false` |

`anonymousTelemetry` controls whether anonymous telemetry is enabled.

## `debug`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `bool` | `false` |

`debug` controls whether the tbot agent runs in debug mode.

## `serviceAccount`

`serviceAccount` controls the Kubernetes ServiceAccounts deployed and used by
the chart.

### `serviceAccount.create`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `bool` | `true` |

`serviceAccount.create` controls whether Helm Chart creates the
Kubernetes `ServiceAccount` resources for the agent.
When off, you are responsible for creating the appropriate ServiceAccount
resources.

### `serviceAccount.name`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `""` |

`serviceAccount.name` sets the name of the `ServiceAccount` resource
used by the chart. By default, the `ServiceAccount` has the name of the
Helm release.

## `imagePullPolicy`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `"IfNotPresent"` |

`imagePullPolicy` sets the pull policy for any pods created by the chart.
See [the Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/images/#updating-images)
for more details.

## `extraLabels`

`extraLabels` contains additional Kubernetes labels to apply on the resources
created by the chart.
See [the Kubernetes label documentation
](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/)
for more information.

### `extraLabels.role`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`extraLabels.role` are labels to set on the Role.

### `extraLabels.roleBinding`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`extraLabels.roleBinding` are labels to set on the RoleBinding.

### `extraLabels.config`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`extraLabels.config` are labels to set on the ConfigMap.

### `extraLabels.deployment`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`extraLabels.deployment` are labels to set on the Deployment or StatefulSet.

### `extraLabels.pod`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`extraLabels.pod` are labels to set on the Pods created by the
Deployment or StatefulSet.

### `extraLabels.serviceAccount`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`extraLabels.serviceAccount` are labels to set on the ServiceAccount.

## `annotations`

`annotations` contains annotations to apply to the different Kubernetes
objects created by the chart. See [the Kubernetes annotation
documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/)
for more details.

### `annotations.role`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`annotations.role` are annotations to set on the Role.

### `annotations.roleBinding`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`annotations.roleBinding` are annotations to set on the RoleBinding.

### `annotations.config`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`annotations.config` contains the Kubernetes annotations
put on the `ConfigMap` resource created by the chart.

### `annotations.deployment`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`annotations.deployment` contains the Kubernetes annotations
put on the `Deployment` or `StatefulSet` resource created by the chart.

### `annotations.pod`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`annotations.pod` contains the Kubernetes annotations
put on the `Pod` resources created by the chart.

### `annotations.serviceAccount`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`annotations.serviceAccount` contains the Kubernetes annotations
put on the `ServiceAccount` resource created by the chart.

## `resources`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`resources` sets the resource requests/limits for any pods created by the chart.
See [the Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/)
for more details.

## `affinity`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`affinity` sets the affinities for any pods created by the chart.
See [the Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/#affinity-and-anti-affinity)
for more details.

## `tolerations`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `list` | `[]` |

`tolerations` sets the tolerations for any pods created by the chart.
See [the Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/taint-and-toleration/)
for more details.

## `nodeSelector`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`nodeSelector` sets the node selector for any pods created by the chart.
See [the Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#nodeselector)
for more details.

## `imagePullSecrets`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `list` | `[]` |

`imagePullSecrets` sets the image pull secrets for any pods created by the chart.
See [the Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/images/#referring-to-an-imagepullsecrets-on-a-pod)
for more details.

## `extraVolumes`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `list` | `[]` |

`extraVolumes` contains extra volumes to mount into the Teleport pods.
See [the Kubernetes volume documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/)
for more details.

For example:
```yaml
extraVolumes:
- name: myvolume
  secret:
    secretName: testSecret
```

## `extraVolumeMounts`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `list` | `[]` |

`extraVolumeMounts` contains extra volumes mounts for the main Teleport container.
See [the Kubernetes volume documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/)
for more details.

For example:
```yaml
extraVolumesMounts:
- name: myvolume
  mountPath: /path/on/host
```

## `extraArgs`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `list` | `[]` |

`extraArgs` contains extra arguments to pass to `tbot start` for
the main tbot pod

## `extraEnv`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `list` | `[]` |

`extraEnv` contains extra environment variables to set in the main
tbot pod.

For example:
```yaml
extraEnv:
  - name: HTTPS_PROXY
    value: "http://username:password@my.proxy.host:3128"
```

Commit message:

feat(tbot): K8S `Role` creation is optional
Fixes #51181.

K8S `Role` & `RoleBinding` are created by default. Their creation does not depends on the `ServiceAccount` creation anymore.

docs/pages/includes/helm-reference/zz_generated.tbot.mdx, after:


{/* Generated file. Do not edit.*/}
{/* Generate this file by navigating to examples/chart and running  make render-chart-ref*/}
## `image`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `"public.ecr.aws/gravitational/tbot-distroless"` |

`image` sets the container image used for tbot pods created by this
chart.

You can override this to use your own tbot image rather than a
Teleport-published image.

## `clusterName`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `""` |

`clusterName` should be the name of the Teleport cluster that your
Bot will join. You can retrieve it by running `tctl status`.

For example: `clusterName: "test.teleport.sh"`

## `teleportProxyAddress`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `""` |

`teleportProxyAddress` is the teleport Proxy Service address the bot will connect to.
This must contain the port number, usually 443 or 3080 for Proxy Service.
Connecting to the Proxy Service is the most common and recommended way to connect to Teleport.
This is mandatory to connect to Teleport Enterprise (Cloud)

This setting is mutually exclusive with teleportProxyAddress and is ignored if `customConfig` is set.

For example:
```yaml
teleportProxyAddress: "test.teleport.sh:443"
```

## `teleportAuthAddress`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `""` |

`teleportAuthAddress` is the teleport Auth Service address the bot will connect to.
This must contain the port number, usually 3025 for Auth Service. Direct Auth Service connection
should be used when you are deploying the bot in the same Kubernetes cluster than your `teleport-cluster`
Helm release and have direct access to the Auth Service.
Else, you should prefer connecting via the Proxy Service.

This setting is mutually exclusive with teleportProxyAddress and is ignored if `customConfig` is set.

For example:
```yaml
teleportAuthAddress: "teleport-auth.teleport-namespace.svc.cluster.local:3025"
```

## `defaultOutput`

`defaultOutput` controls the default output configured for the tbot agent.
Ignored if `customConfig` is set.

### `defaultOutput.enabled`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `bool` | `true` |

`defaultOutput.enabled` controls whether the default output is enabled.

## `persistence`

`persistence` controls how the tbot agent stores its data.

Options:
- "secret": uses a Kubernetes Secret.
- "disabled": does not persist data. May impact ability to track bot
   deployment across its lifetime.

## `tbotConfig`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`tbotConfig` contains YAML teleport configuration to pass to the
tbot pods. The configuration will be merged with the chart-generated
configuration and will take precedence in case of conflict. Try to prefer to
use the more specific configuration values throughout this chart.

## `outputs`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `list` | `[]` |

`outputs` contains additional outputs to configure for the tbot agent.
These should be in the same format as the `outputs` field in the tbot.yaml.
Ignored if `customConfig` is set.

## `services`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `list` | `[]` |

`services` contains additional services to configure for the tbot agent.
These should be in the same format as the `services` field in the tbot.yaml.
Ignored if `customConfig` is set.

## `joinMethod`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `"kubernetes"` |

`joinMethod` describes how tbot joins the Teleport cluster.
See [the join method reference](../../reference/join-methods.mdx) for a list fo supported values and detailed explanations.
Ignored if `customConfig` is set.

## `token`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `""` |

`token` is the name of the token used by tbot to join the Teleport cluster.
This value is not sensitive unless the `joinMethod` is set to `"token"`.
Ignored if `customConfig` is set.

## `teleportVersionOverride`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `""` |

`teleportVersionOverride` controls the tbot image version deployed by
the chart.

Normally, the version of tbot matches the version of the chart. If you install
chart version 15.0.0, you'll use tbot version 15.0.0. Upgrading tbot is done
by upgrading the chart.

<Admonition type="warning">
`teleportVersionOverride` is intended for development and MUST NOT be
used to control the Teleport version in a typical deployment. This
chart is designed to run a specific Teleport version. You will face
compatibility issues trying to run a different Teleport version with it.

If you want to run Teleport version `X.Y.Z`, you should use
`helm install --version X.Y.Z` instead.

</Admonition>

## `anonymousTelemetry`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `bool` | `false` |

`anonymousTelemetry` controls whether anonymous telemetry is enabled.

## `debug`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `bool` | `false` |

`debug` controls whether the tbot agent runs in debug mode.

## `serviceAccount`

`serviceAccount` controls the Kubernetes ServiceAccounts deployed and used by
the chart.

### `serviceAccount.create`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `bool` | `true` |

`serviceAccount.create` controls whether Helm Chart creates the
Kubernetes `ServiceAccount` resources for the agent.
When off, you are responsible for creating the appropriate ServiceAccount
resources.

### `serviceAccount.name`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `""` |

`serviceAccount.name` sets the name of the `ServiceAccount` resource
used by the chart. By default, the `ServiceAccount` has the name of the
Helm release.

## `rbac`

`rbac` controls the Kubernetes Role and RoleBinding creation
used by the serviceAccount

### `rbac.create`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `bool` | `true` |

`rbac.create` controls whether Helm Chart creates the
Kubernetes `Role` & `RoleBindings` resources for the Kubernetes SA.
When off, you are responsible for creating the appropriate resources.

## `imagePullPolicy`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `string` | `"IfNotPresent"` |

`imagePullPolicy` sets the pull policy for any pods created by the chart.
See [the Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/images/#updating-images)
for more details.

## `extraLabels`

`extraLabels` contains additional Kubernetes labels to apply on the resources
created by the chart.
See [the Kubernetes label documentation
](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/)
for more information.

### `extraLabels.role`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`extraLabels.role` are labels to set on the Role.

### `extraLabels.roleBinding`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`extraLabels.roleBinding` are labels to set on the RoleBinding.

### `extraLabels.config`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`extraLabels.config` are labels to set on the ConfigMap.

### `extraLabels.deployment`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`extraLabels.deployment` are labels to set on the Deployment or StatefulSet.

### `extraLabels.pod`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`extraLabels.pod` are labels to set on the Pods created by the
Deployment or StatefulSet.

### `extraLabels.serviceAccount`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`extraLabels.serviceAccount` are labels to set on the ServiceAccount.

## `annotations`

`annotations` contains annotations to apply to the different Kubernetes
objects created by the chart. See [the Kubernetes annotation
documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/)
for more details.

### `annotations.role`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`annotations.role` are annotations to set on the Role.

### `annotations.roleBinding`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`annotations.roleBinding` are annotations to set on the RoleBinding.

### `annotations.config`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`annotations.config` contains the Kubernetes annotations
put on the `ConfigMap` resource created by the chart.

### `annotations.deployment`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`annotations.deployment` contains the Kubernetes annotations
put on the `Deployment` or `StatefulSet` resource created by the chart.

### `annotations.pod`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`annotations.pod` contains the Kubernetes annotations
put on the `Pod` resources created by the chart.

### `annotations.serviceAccount`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`annotations.serviceAccount` contains the Kubernetes annotations
put on the `ServiceAccount` resource created by the chart.

## `resources`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`resources` sets the resource requests/limits for any pods created by the chart.
See [the Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/)
for more details.

## `affinity`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`affinity` sets the affinities for any pods created by the chart.
See [the Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/#affinity-and-anti-affinity)
for more details.

## `tolerations`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `list` | `[]` |

`tolerations` sets the tolerations for any pods created by the chart.
See [the Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/taint-and-toleration/)
for more details.

## `nodeSelector`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `object` | `{}` |

`nodeSelector` sets the node selector for any pods created by the chart.
See [the Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#nodeselector)
for more details.

## `imagePullSecrets`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `list` | `[]` |

`imagePullSecrets` sets the image pull secrets for any pods created by the chart.
See [the Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/images/#referring-to-an-imagepullsecrets-on-a-pod)
for more details.

## `extraVolumes`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `list` | `[]` |

`extraVolumes` contains extra volumes to mount into the Teleport pods.
See [the Kubernetes volume documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/)
for more details.

For example:
```yaml
extraVolumes:
- name: myvolume
  secret:
    secretName: testSecret
```

## `extraVolumeMounts`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `list` | `[]` |

`extraVolumeMounts` contains extra volumes mounts for the main Teleport container.
See [the Kubernetes volume documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/)
for more details.

For example:
```yaml
extraVolumesMounts:
- name: myvolume
  mountPath: /path/on/host
```

## `extraArgs`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `list` | `[]` |

`extraArgs` contains extra arguments to pass to `tbot start` for
the main tbot pod

## `extraEnv`

| Type | Default |
|------|---------|
| `list` | `[]` |

`extraEnv` contains extra environment variables to set in the main
tbot pod.

For example:
```yaml
extraEnv:
  - name: HTTPS_PROXY
    value: "http://username:password@my.proxy.host:3128"
```
