docs/pages/choose-an-edition/teleport-enterprise/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: Teleport Enterprise
description: Introduction to features and benefits of using Teleport Enterprise. Why upgrade to Teleport Enterprise?
h1: Teleport Enterprise
---

Teleport Enterprise is a commercial product built around Teleport's open source
core.

The table below gives a quick overview of the benefits of Teleport Enterprise.

| Teleport Enterprise Feature | Description |
| - | - |
| [Single Sign-On (SSO)](#sso) | Allows Teleport to integrate with existing enterprise identity systems. Examples include Active Directory, GitHub, Google Apps and numerous identity middleware solutions like Auth0, Okta, and so on. Teleport supports SAML and OAuth/OpenID Connect protocols to interact with them. |
| [Access Requests](../../access-controls/access-requests.mdx) | Request elevated access to roles or specific resources. |
| [FedRAMP/FIPS](#fedrampfips) | Access controls to meet the requirements in a FedRAMP System Security Plan (SSP). This includes a FIPS 140-2 friendly build of Teleport Enterprise as well as a variety of improvements to aid in complying with security controls even in FedRAMP High environments. |
| [Hardware Security Module support](./hsm.mdx)|The Teleport Auth Service can use your organization's HSM to generate TLS credentials, ensuring a highly reliable and secure public key infrastructure.|
| [Moderated Sessions](../../access-controls/guides/moderated-sessions.mdx)|Allow or require moderators to be present in SSH or Kubernetes sessions.|
| Commercial Support | Support SLA with guaranteed response times. |

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Contact Information"
>
  Try Teleport Enterprise for [free in the cloud](https://goteleport.com/signup/) or [contact sales](https://goteleport.com/signup/enterprise/).
</Admonition>

## SSO

The commercial edition of Teleport allows users to retrieve their SSH
credentials via a single sign-on (SSO) system used by the rest of the organization.

Examples of supported SSO systems include commercial solutions like Okta,
Auth0, SailPoint, OneLogin Active Directory, as well as open source products like Keycloak.
Other identity management systems are supported as long as they provide an
SSO mechanism based on either SAML or OpenID Connect.

### How does SSO work with SSH?

From the user's perspective they need to execute the following command to retrieve their SSH certificate.

```code
$ tsh login
```

Teleport can be configured with a certificate TTL to determine how often a user needs to log in.

`tsh login` will print a URL into the console, which will open an SSO login
prompt, along with the 2FA, as enforced by the SSO provider. If a user supplies
valid credentials, Teleport will issue an SSH certificate.

Moreover, SSO can be used in combination with role-based access control (RBAC)
to enforce SSH access policies like *"developers must not touch production data"*.
See the [SSO](../../access-controls/sso.mdx) chapter for more details.

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Contact Information"
>
  Try Teleport Enterprise for [free in the cloud](https://goteleport.com/signup/) or [contact sales](https://goteleport.com/signup/enterprise/).
</Admonition>

## FedRAMP/FIPS

With Teleport we have built the foundation to meet FedRAMP requirements for the purposes of accessing infrastructure. This includes support for [FIPS 140-2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIPS\_140-2), also known as the Federal Information Processing Standard, which is the US government approved standard for cryptographic modules.

Enterprise customers can download the custom FIPS package from their [Teleport account](https://teleport.sh).

Look for `Linux 64-bit (FedRAMP/FIPS)`.

Using `teleport start --fips` Teleport will start in FIPS mode, Teleport will
configure the TLS and SSH servers with FIPS compliant cryptographic algorithms.
In FIPS mode, if non-compliant algorithms are chosen, Teleport will fail to start.
In addition, Teleport checks if the binary was compiled against an approved
cryptographic module (BoringCrypto) and fails to start if it was not.

See our [FedRAMP Compliance for Infrastructure Access](../../access-controls/compliance-frameworks/fedramp.mdx) guide for more information.

## Access Requests

With Teleport, users can request access to roles or to a specific set of resources
such as a production server. Requests can be published to tools like Slack, Jira,
and PagerDuty for easy integration with your organization's workflows. Teleport
Enterprise's web interface also provides for creating and approving access requests.

See [Access Requests Guide for more
information](../../access-controls/access-requests.mdx)

## Hardware Security Module support

Teleport relies on a TLS private key and certificate in order to encrypt traffic
and authenticate clients. With Teleport Enterprise, you can configure Teleport
to use TLS credentials based on your organization's Hardware Security Module,
improving the security and reliability of Teleport's public key infrastructure.

See [HSM Support](./hsm.mdx) for more information.

## Moderated Sessions

Moderated Sessions are SSH or Kubernetes sessions that certain Teleport users
can participate in, observe, or terminate at will. 

Teleport administrators can configure a role so that, when a user with the role
starts a session, another user *must* join the session, satisfying your
organization's security requirements.

It is also possible to configure a role to *allow* another user to join a
session, which is useful for teams that need to collaborate at the terminal.

See [Moderated Sessions](../../access-controls/guides/moderated-sessions.mdx) for more information.

## License file

Commercial Teleport subscriptions require a valid license. See [Enterprise License File](./license.mdx) for how to manage the file in your Teleport Enterprise deployment.

## Next steps

To get started with Teleport Enterprise, read our [deployment
guides](../../deploy-a-cluster/introduction.mdx). You will learn how to deploy a
high-availability, self-hosted Teleport cluster on your platform.

Unless your organization requires the Enterprise-specific features we outlined
above, you can use Teleport Enterprise Cloud to achieve secure access to your
infrastructure without needing to maintain the Auth and Proxy Services. 

[Sign up for a free trial of Teleport Enterprise
Cloud](https://goteleport.com/signup/).

Commit message:

Change signup links to mention Teleport Team (#28547)
The free trial a user can sign up for is a Teleport Team trial, not an
Enterprise Cloud trial. This change reflects this.

docs/pages/choose-an-edition/teleport-enterprise/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: Teleport Enterprise
description: Introduction to features and benefits of using Teleport Enterprise. Why upgrade to Teleport Enterprise?
h1: Teleport Enterprise
---

Teleport Enterprise is a commercial product built around Teleport's open source
core.

The table below gives a quick overview of the benefits of Teleport Enterprise.

| Teleport Enterprise Feature | Description |
| - | - |
| [Single Sign-On (SSO)](#sso) | Allows Teleport to integrate with existing enterprise identity systems. Examples include Active Directory, GitHub, Google Apps and numerous identity middleware solutions like Auth0, Okta, and so on. Teleport supports SAML and OAuth/OpenID Connect protocols to interact with them. |
| [Access Requests](../../access-controls/access-requests.mdx) | Request elevated access to roles or specific resources. |
| [FedRAMP/FIPS](#fedrampfips) | Access controls to meet the requirements in a FedRAMP System Security Plan (SSP). This includes a FIPS 140-2 friendly build of Teleport Enterprise as well as a variety of improvements to aid in complying with security controls even in FedRAMP High environments. |
| [Hardware Security Module support](./hsm.mdx)|The Teleport Auth Service can use your organization's HSM to generate TLS credentials, ensuring a highly reliable and secure public key infrastructure.|
| [Moderated Sessions](../../access-controls/guides/moderated-sessions.mdx)|Allow or require moderators to be present in SSH or Kubernetes sessions.|
| Commercial Support | Support SLA with guaranteed response times. |

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Contact Information"
>

  To get started with self-hosted Teleport Enterprise, [contact
  sales](https://goteleport.com/signup/enterprise/).

  You can also sign up for a [free trial](https://goteleport.com/signup) of
  Teleport Team, which manages the Auth Service and Proxy Service for you. You
  can then upgrade your account to Teleport Enterprise Cloud.

</Admonition>

## SSO

The commercial edition of Teleport allows users to retrieve their SSH
credentials via a single sign-on (SSO) system used by the rest of the organization.

Examples of supported SSO systems include commercial solutions like Okta,
Auth0, SailPoint, OneLogin Active Directory, as well as open source products like Keycloak.
Other identity management systems are supported as long as they provide an
SSO mechanism based on either SAML or OpenID Connect.

### How does SSO work with SSH?

From the user's perspective they need to execute the following command to retrieve their SSH certificate.

```code
$ tsh login
```

Teleport can be configured with a certificate TTL to determine how often a user needs to log in.

`tsh login` will print a URL into the console, which will open an SSO login
prompt, along with the 2FA, as enforced by the SSO provider. If a user supplies
valid credentials, Teleport will issue an SSH certificate.

Moreover, SSO can be used in combination with role-based access control (RBAC)
to enforce SSH access policies like *"developers must not touch production data"*.
See the [SSO](../../access-controls/sso.mdx) chapter for more details.

## FedRAMP/FIPS

With Teleport we have built the foundation to meet FedRAMP requirements for the purposes of accessing infrastructure. This includes support for [FIPS 140-2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIPS\_140-2), also known as the Federal Information Processing Standard, which is the US government approved standard for cryptographic modules.

Enterprise customers can download the custom FIPS package from their [Teleport account](https://teleport.sh).

Look for `Linux 64-bit (FedRAMP/FIPS)`.

Using `teleport start --fips` Teleport will start in FIPS mode, Teleport will
configure the TLS and SSH servers with FIPS compliant cryptographic algorithms.
In FIPS mode, if non-compliant algorithms are chosen, Teleport will fail to start.
In addition, Teleport checks if the binary was compiled against an approved
cryptographic module (BoringCrypto) and fails to start if it was not.

See our [FedRAMP Compliance for Infrastructure Access](../../access-controls/compliance-frameworks/fedramp.mdx) guide for more information.

## Access Requests

With Teleport, users can request access to roles or to a specific set of resources
such as a production server. Requests can be published to tools like Slack, Jira,
and PagerDuty for easy integration with your organization's workflows. Teleport
Enterprise's web interface also provides for creating and approving access requests.

See [Access Requests Guide for more
information](../../access-controls/access-requests.mdx)

## Hardware Security Module support

Teleport relies on a TLS private key and certificate in order to encrypt traffic
and authenticate clients. With Teleport Enterprise, you can configure Teleport
to use TLS credentials based on your organization's Hardware Security Module,
improving the security and reliability of Teleport's public key infrastructure.

See [HSM Support](./hsm.mdx) for more information.

## Moderated Sessions

Moderated Sessions are SSH or Kubernetes sessions that certain Teleport users
can participate in, observe, or terminate at will. 

Teleport administrators can configure a role so that, when a user with the role
starts a session, another user *must* join the session, satisfying your
organization's security requirements.

It is also possible to configure a role to *allow* another user to join a
session, which is useful for teams that need to collaborate at the terminal.

See [Moderated Sessions](../../access-controls/guides/moderated-sessions.mdx) for more information.

## License file

Commercial Teleport subscriptions require a valid license. See [Enterprise License File](./license.mdx) for how to manage the file in your Teleport Enterprise deployment.

## Next steps

To get started with Teleport Enterprise, read our [deployment
guides](../../deploy-a-cluster/introduction.mdx). You will learn how to deploy a
high-availability, self-hosted Teleport cluster on your platform.

Unless your organization requires the Enterprise-specific features we outlined
above, you can use Teleport Enterprise Cloud to achieve secure access to your
infrastructure without needing to maintain the Auth and Proxy Services. 

[Sign up for a free trial of Teleport Team](https://goteleport.com/signup/),
which you can upgrade to a Teleport Enterprise Cloud account.
