docs/pages/database-access/reference/configuration.mdx, before:

---
title: Database Access Configuration Reference
description: Configuration reference for Teleport database access.
---

## Database service configuration

The following snippet shows full YAML configuration of a Database Service
appearing in `teleport.yaml` configuration file:

```yaml
(!docs/pages/includes/config-reference/database-config.yaml!)
```

## Proxy configuration

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss", "enterprise"]} label="Self-Hosted">

The following Proxy service configuration is relevant for database access:

<Admonition
type="warning"
title="TLS for database connections"
>
The `--insecure-no-tls` `tsh` flag is only supported for MySQL/MariaDB and PostgreSQL
connections using a unique port, specified with `mysql_public_addr` or `postgres_public_addr`.
</Admonition>

```yaml
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  # Database proxy is listening on the regular web proxy port.
  web_listen_addr: "0.0.0.0:443"
  # MySQL proxy is listening on a separate port and needs to be enabled
  # on the proxy server.
  mysql_listen_addr: "0.0.0.0:3036"
  # MySQL Server version allows you to overwrite the default Teleport Proxy Service MySQL version (8.0.0-Teleport)
  # Note that if the MySQL client connection is using TLS Routing the dynamic MySQL Server Version takes
  # precedence over the mysql_server_version proxy settings.
  # mysql_server_version: "8.0.4"
  # Postgres proxy listening address. If provided, proxy will use a separate listener
  # instead of multiplexing Postgres protocol on web_listener_addr.
  # postgres_listen_addr: "0.0.0.0:5432"
  # Mongo proxy listening address. If provided, proxy will use a separate listener
  # instead of multiplexing Mongo protocol on web_listener_addr.
  # mongo_listen_addr: "0.0.0.0:27017"
  # By default database clients will be connecting to the Proxy over this
  # hostname. To override public address for specific database protocols
  # use postgres_public_addr and mysql_public_addr.
  public_addr: "teleport.example.com:443"
  # Address advertised to MySQL clients. If not set, public_addr is used.
  mysql_public_addr: "mysql.teleport.example.com:3306"
  # Address advertised to PostgreSQL clients. If not set, public_addr is used.
  postgres_public_addr: "postgres.teleport.example.com:443"
  # Address advertised to Mongo clients. If not set, public_addr is used.
  mongo_public_addr: "mongo.teleport.example.com:443"
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Cloud">

Teleport Cloud automatically configures the Teleport Proxy Service with the
following settings that are relevant to database access. This reference
configuration uses `mytenant.teleport.sh` in place of your Teleport Cloud tenant
address.

```yaml
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  # Database proxy is listening on the regular web proxy port.
  web_listen_addr: "0.0.0.0:3080"
  # MySQL proxy is listening on a separate port.
  mysql_listen_addr: "0.0.0.0:3036"
  # Database clients will connect to the Proxy Service over this hostname.
  public_addr: "mytenant.teleport.sh:443"
  # Address advertised to MySQL clients.
  mysql_public_addr: "mytenant.teleport.sh:3036"
  # Address advertised to PostgreSQL clients.
  postgres_public_addr: "mytenant.teleport.sh:443"
  # Address advertised to Mongo clients. If not set, public_addr is used.
  mongo_public_addr: "mongo.teleport.example.com:443
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Database resource

Full YAML spec of database resources managed by `tctl` resource commands:

```yaml
kind: db
version: v3
metadata:
  # Database resource name.
  name: example

  # Database resource description.
  description: "Example database"

  # Database resource static labels.
  labels:
    env: example

spec:
  # Database protocol.
  protocol: "postgres"

  # Database connection endpoint.
  uri: "localhost:5432"

  # Optional CA for validating the database certificate.
  ca_cert: |
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
    ...
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----

  # Database admin user for automatic user provisioning.
  admin_user:
    # Database admin user name.
    name: "teleport-admin"

  # MySQL only options.
  mysql:
    # The MySQL server version reported by the Teleport Proxy Service.
    # Teleport uses this string when reporting the server version to a 
    # connecting client.
    #
    # When this option is not set, the Database Service will try to connect to
    # a MySQL instance on startup and fetch the server version. Otherwise, 
    # it will use the provided value without connecting to a database. 
    #
    # In both cases, the MySQL server version reported to a client will be 
    # updated on the first successful connection made by a user.
    # Teleport uses that string instead of default '8.0.0-Teleport' version when reporting
    # the server version to a connecting client. When this option is not set, the Database Service will try
    # to connect to MySQL instance on startup and fetch the server version.
    # Otherwise, it will use the provided value without connecting to a database.
    # In both cases MySQL server version reported to a client will be updated on the first successful
    # connection made by a user.
    server_version: 8.0.28

  # Optional AWS configuration for RDS/Aurora/Redshift. Can be auto-detected from the endpoint.
  aws:
    # Region the database is deployed in.
    region: "us-east-1"
    # Optional AWS role that the Database Service will assume to access
    # this database.
    assume_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/example-role-name"
    # Optional AWS external ID that the Database Service will use to assume
    # a role in an external AWS account.
    external_id: "example-external-id"
    # Redshift specific configuration.
    redshift:
      # Redshift cluster identifier.
      cluster_id: "redshift-cluster-1"

  # Optional GCP configuration for Cloud SQL.
  gcp:
    # GCP project ID.
    project_id: "xxx-1234"
    # Cloud SQL instance ID.
    instance_id: "example"

  # Settings specific to Active Directory authentication e.g. for SQL Server.
  ad:
    # Path to Kerberos keytab file.
    keytab_file: /path/to/keytab
    # Active Directory domain name.
    domain: EXAMPLE.COM
    # Service Principal Name to obtain Kerberos tickets for.
    spn: MSSQLSvc/ec2amaz-4kn05du.dbadir.teleportdemo.net:1433
    # Optional path to Kerberos configuration file. Defaults to /etc/krb5.conf.
    krb5_file: /etc/krb5.conf

  # Optional dynamic labels.
  dynamic_labels:
  - name: "hostname"
    command: ["hostname"]
    period: 1m0s
```

You can create a new `db` resource by running the following commands, which
assume that you have created a YAML file called `db.yaml` with your configuration:

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

```code
# Log in to your cluster with tsh so you can use tctl from your local machine.
# You can also run tctl on your Auth Service host without running "tsh login"
# first.
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=myuser
# Create the resource
$ tctl create -f db.yaml
```

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

```code
# Log in to your Teleport cluster so you can use tctl from your local machine.
$ tsh login --proxy=mytenant.teleport.sh --user=myuser
# Create the resource
$ tctl create -f db.yaml
```

</ScopedBlock>

Commit message:

Edit forScopes configurations and edit guides (#28443)
* Edit forScopes configurations and edit guides

Closes #26500

This change requires merging gravitational/docs#326 to add a Team scope
to the docs.

This updates pages within the docs so that:

- Each page's `forScopes` configuration is accurate, especially with
  regard to support for Teleport Team.
- All scoped components match the `forScopes` configuration for each
  page. For this, I used the linter introduced by
  gravitational/docs#327.

* Respond to alexfornuto feedback

docs/pages/database-access/reference/configuration.mdx, after:

---
title: Database Access Configuration Reference
description: Configuration reference for Teleport database access.
---

## Database service configuration

The following snippet shows full YAML configuration of a Database Service
appearing in `teleport.yaml` configuration file:

```yaml
(!docs/pages/includes/config-reference/database-config.yaml!)
```

## Proxy configuration

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss", "enterprise"]} label="Self-Hosted">

The following Proxy service configuration is relevant for database access:

<Admonition
type="warning"
title="TLS for database connections"
>
The `--insecure-no-tls` `tsh` flag is only supported for MySQL/MariaDB and PostgreSQL
connections using a unique port, specified with `mysql_public_addr` or `postgres_public_addr`.
</Admonition>

```yaml
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  # Database proxy is listening on the regular web proxy port.
  web_listen_addr: "0.0.0.0:443"
  # MySQL proxy is listening on a separate port and needs to be enabled
  # on the proxy server.
  mysql_listen_addr: "0.0.0.0:3036"
  # MySQL Server version allows you to overwrite the default Teleport Proxy Service MySQL version (8.0.0-Teleport)
  # Note that if the MySQL client connection is using TLS Routing the dynamic MySQL Server Version takes
  # precedence over the mysql_server_version proxy settings.
  # mysql_server_version: "8.0.4"
  # Postgres proxy listening address. If provided, proxy will use a separate listener
  # instead of multiplexing Postgres protocol on web_listener_addr.
  # postgres_listen_addr: "0.0.0.0:5432"
  # Mongo proxy listening address. If provided, proxy will use a separate listener
  # instead of multiplexing Mongo protocol on web_listener_addr.
  # mongo_listen_addr: "0.0.0.0:27017"
  # By default database clients will be connecting to the Proxy over this
  # hostname. To override public address for specific database protocols
  # use postgres_public_addr and mysql_public_addr.
  public_addr: "teleport.example.com:443"
  # Address advertised to MySQL clients. If not set, public_addr is used.
  mysql_public_addr: "mysql.teleport.example.com:3306"
  # Address advertised to PostgreSQL clients. If not set, public_addr is used.
  postgres_public_addr: "postgres.teleport.example.com:443"
  # Address advertised to Mongo clients. If not set, public_addr is used.
  mongo_public_addr: "mongo.teleport.example.com:443"
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["team","cloud"]} label="Cloud-Hosted">

Teleport Team and Teleport Enterprise Cloud automatically configure the Teleport
Proxy Service with the following settings that are relevant to database access.
This reference configuration uses `mytenant.teleport.sh` in place of your
Teleport Team/Enterprise Cloud tenant address.

```yaml
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  # Database proxy is listening on the regular web proxy port.
  web_listen_addr: "0.0.0.0:3080"
  # MySQL proxy is listening on a separate port.
  mysql_listen_addr: "0.0.0.0:3036"
  # Database clients will connect to the Proxy Service over this hostname.
  public_addr: "mytenant.teleport.sh:443"
  # Address advertised to MySQL clients.
  mysql_public_addr: "mytenant.teleport.sh:3036"
  # Address advertised to PostgreSQL clients.
  postgres_public_addr: "mytenant.teleport.sh:443"
  # Address advertised to Mongo clients. If not set, public_addr is used.
  mongo_public_addr: "mongo.teleport.example.com:443
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Database resource

Full YAML spec of database resources managed by `tctl` resource commands:

```yaml
kind: db
version: v3
metadata:
  # Database resource name.
  name: example

  # Database resource description.
  description: "Example database"

  # Database resource static labels.
  labels:
    env: example

spec:
  # Database protocol.
  protocol: "postgres"

  # Database connection endpoint.
  uri: "localhost:5432"

  # Optional CA for validating the database certificate.
  ca_cert: |
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
    ...
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----

  # Database admin user for automatic user provisioning.
  admin_user:
    # Database admin user name.
    name: "teleport-admin"

  # MySQL only options.
  mysql:
    # The MySQL server version reported by the Teleport Proxy Service.
    # Teleport uses this string when reporting the server version to a 
    # connecting client.
    #
    # When this option is not set, the Database Service will try to connect to
    # a MySQL instance on startup and fetch the server version. Otherwise, 
    # it will use the provided value without connecting to a database. 
    #
    # In both cases, the MySQL server version reported to a client will be 
    # updated on the first successful connection made by a user.
    # Teleport uses that string instead of default '8.0.0-Teleport' version when reporting
    # the server version to a connecting client. When this option is not set, the Database Service will try
    # to connect to MySQL instance on startup and fetch the server version.
    # Otherwise, it will use the provided value without connecting to a database.
    # In both cases MySQL server version reported to a client will be updated on the first successful
    # connection made by a user.
    server_version: 8.0.28

  # Optional AWS configuration for RDS/Aurora/Redshift. Can be auto-detected from the endpoint.
  aws:
    # Region the database is deployed in.
    region: "us-east-1"
    # Optional AWS role that the Database Service will assume to access
    # this database.
    assume_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/example-role-name"
    # Optional AWS external ID that the Database Service will use to assume
    # a role in an external AWS account.
    external_id: "example-external-id"
    # Redshift specific configuration.
    redshift:
      # Redshift cluster identifier.
      cluster_id: "redshift-cluster-1"

  # Optional GCP configuration for Cloud SQL.
  gcp:
    # GCP project ID.
    project_id: "xxx-1234"
    # Cloud SQL instance ID.
    instance_id: "example"

  # Settings specific to Active Directory authentication e.g. for SQL Server.
  ad:
    # Path to Kerberos keytab file.
    keytab_file: /path/to/keytab
    # Active Directory domain name.
    domain: EXAMPLE.COM
    # Service Principal Name to obtain Kerberos tickets for.
    spn: MSSQLSvc/ec2amaz-4kn05du.dbadir.teleportdemo.net:1433
    # Optional path to Kerberos configuration file. Defaults to /etc/krb5.conf.
    krb5_file: /etc/krb5.conf

  # Optional dynamic labels.
  dynamic_labels:
  - name: "hostname"
    command: ["hostname"]
    period: 1m0s
```

You can create a new `db` resource by running the following commands, which
assume that you have created a YAML file called `db.yaml` with your configuration:

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

```code
# Log in to your cluster with tsh so you can use tctl from your local machine.
# You can also run tctl on your Auth Service host without running "tsh login"
# first.
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=myuser
# Create the resource
$ tctl create -f db.yaml
```

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

```code
# Log in to your Teleport cluster so you can use tctl from your local machine.
$ tsh login --proxy=mytenant.teleport.sh --user=myuser
# Create the resource
$ tctl create -f db.yaml
```

</ScopedBlock>
