docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx, before:

<Tabs>
<TabItem
  scope={["enterprise"]} label="Enterprise">

- A running Teleport Enterprise cluster, including the Auth Service and Proxy Service. For
  details on how to set this up, see our Enterprise [Getting
  Started](../choose-an-edition/teleport-enterprise/introduction.mdx) guide.

- The Enterprise `tctl` admin tool and `tsh` client tool version >= (=teleport.version=),
  which you can download by visiting your [Teleport account](https://teleport.sh).

  ```code
  $ tctl version
  # Teleport Enterprise v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  
  $ tsh version
  # Teleport v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]}
  label="Teleport Enterprise Cloud">

- A Teleport Enterprise Cloud account, which includes a running Auth Service and Proxy
  Service. If you do not have a Teleport Cloud account, visit the [sign up
  page](https://goteleport.com/signup/) to begin your free trial.

- The `tctl` admin tool and `tsh` client tool version >= (=cloud.version=).
  To download these tools, visit the [Downloads](../choose-an-edition/teleport-cloud/downloads.mdx) page.

  ```code
  $ tctl version
  # Teleport Enterprise v(=cloud.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  
  $ tsh version
  # Teleport v(=cloud.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Change signup links to mention Teleport Team
The free trial a user can sign up for is a Teleport Team trial, not an
Enterprise Cloud trial. This change reflects this.

docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx, after:

<Tabs>
<TabItem
  scope={["enterprise"]} label="Enterprise">

- A running Teleport Enterprise cluster, including the Auth Service and Proxy Service. For
  details on how to set this up, see our Enterprise [Getting
  Started](../choose-an-edition/teleport-enterprise/introduction.mdx) guide.

- The Enterprise `tctl` admin tool and `tsh` client tool version >= (=teleport.version=),
  which you can download by visiting your [Teleport account](https://teleport.sh).

  ```code
  $ tctl version
  # Teleport Enterprise v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  
  $ tsh version
  # Teleport v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]}
  label="Teleport Enterprise Cloud">

- A Teleport Enterprise Cloud account. If you do not have one, visit the [signup
  page](https://goteleport.com/signup/) to begin a free trial of Teleport Team
  and upgrade to Teleport Enterprise Cloud. 

- The `tctl` admin tool and `tsh` client tool version >= (=cloud.version=).
  To download these tools, visit the [Downloads](../choose-an-edition/teleport-cloud/downloads.mdx) page.

  ```code
  $ tctl version
  # Teleport Enterprise v(=cloud.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  
  $ tsh version
  # Teleport v(=cloud.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
