docs/pages/includes/install-linux-ent-self-hosted.mdx, before:

{{ to-install="teleport-ent" }}
<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Debian 9+/Ubuntu 16.04+ (apt)">

```code
$ sudo mkdir -p /etc/apt/keyrings
# Download Teleport's PGP public key
$ sudo curl https://apt.releases.teleport.dev/gpg \
-o /etc/apt/keyrings/teleport-archive-keyring.asc
# Source variables about OS version
$ source /etc/os-release
# Add the Teleport APT repository for v(=teleport.major_version=). You'll need to update this
# file for each major release of Teleport.
$ echo "deb [signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/teleport-archive-keyring.asc] \
https://apt.releases.teleport.dev/${ID?} ${VERSION_CODENAME?} stable/v(=teleport.major_version=)" \
| sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/teleport.list > /dev/null

$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install {{ to-install }}
```

For FedRAMP/FIPS-compliant installations, install the `teleport-ent-fips` package instead:

```code
$ sudo apt-get install teleport-ent-fips
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Amazon Linux 2/RHEL 7 (yum)">

```code
# Source variables about OS version
$ source /etc/os-release
# Add the Teleport YUM repository for v(=teleport.major_version=). You'll need to update this
# file for each major release of Teleport.
# First, get the major version from $VERSION_ID so this fetches the correct
# package version.
$ VERSION_ID=$(echo $VERSION_ID | grep -Eo "^[0-9]+")
$ sudo yum install -y yum-utils
$ sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo "$(rpm --eval "https://yum.releases.teleport.dev/$ID/$VERSION_ID/Teleport/%{_arch}/stable/v(=teleport.major_version=)/teleport.repo")"
$ sudo yum install {{ to-install }}
#
# Tip: Add /usr/local/bin to path used by sudo (so 'sudo tctl users add' will work as per the docs)
# echo "Defaults    secure_path = /sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/local/bin" > /etc/sudoers.d/secure_path
```

For FedRAMP/FIPS-compliant installations, install the `teleport-ent-fips` package instead:

```code
$ sudo yum install teleport-ent-fips
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Amazon Linux 2/RHEL 7 (zypper)">

```code
# Source variables about OS version
$ source /etc/os-release
# Add the Teleport Zypper repository for v(=teleport.major_version=). You'll need to update this
# file for each major release of Teleport.
# First, get the OS major version from $VERSION_ID so this fetches the correct
# package version.
$ VERSION_ID=$(echo $VERSION_ID | grep -Eo "^[0-9]+")
# Use zypper to add the teleport RPM repo
$ sudo zypper addrepo --refresh --repo $(rpm --eval "https://zypper.releases.teleport.dev/$ID/$VERSION_ID/Teleport/%{_arch}/stable/cloud/teleport-zypper.repo")
$ sudo yum install {{ to-install }}
#
# Tip: Add /usr/local/bin to path used by sudo (so 'sudo tctl users add' will work as per the docs)
# echo "Defaults    secure_path = /sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/local/bin" > /etc/sudoers.d/secure_path
```

For FedRAMP/FIPS-compliant installations, install the `teleport-ent-fips` package instead:

```code
$ sudo yum install teleport-ent-fips
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Amazon Linux 2023/RHEL 8+ (dnf)">

```code
# Source variables about OS version
$ source /etc/os-release
# Add the Teleport YUM repository for v(=teleport.major_version=). You'll need to update this
# file for each major release of Teleport.
# First, get the major version from $VERSION_ID so this fetches the correct
# package version.
$ VERSION_ID=$(echo $VERSION_ID | grep -Eo "^[0-9]+")
# Use the dnf config manager plugin to add the teleport RPM repo
$ sudo dnf config-manager --add-repo "$(rpm --eval "https://yum.releases.teleport.dev/$ID/$VERSION_ID/Teleport/%{_arch}/stable/v(=teleport.major_version=)/teleport.repo")"

# Install teleport
$ sudo dnf install {{ to-install }}

# Tip: Add /usr/local/bin to path used by sudo (so 'sudo tctl users add' will work as per the docs)
# echo "Defaults    secure_path = /sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/local/bin" > /etc/sudoers.d/secure_path
```

For FedRAMP/FIPS-compliant installations, install the `teleport-ent-fips` package instead:

```code
$ sudo dnf install teleport-ent-fips
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="SLES 12 SP5+ and 15 SP5+ (zypper)">

```code
# Source variables about OS version
$ source /etc/os-release
# Add the Teleport Zypper repository.
# First, get the OS major version from $VERSION_ID so this fetches the correct
# package version.
$ VERSION_ID=$(echo $VERSION_ID | grep -Eo "^[0-9]+")
# Use Zypper to add the teleport RPM repo
$ sudo zypper addrepo --refresh --repo $(rpm --eval "https://zypper.releases.teleport.dev/$ID/$VERSION_ID/Teleport/%{_arch}/stable/v(=teleport.major_version=)/teleport-zypper.repo")

# Install teleport
$ sudo zypper install {{ to-install }}
```

For FedRAMP/FIPS-compliant installations, install the `teleport-ent-fips` package instead:

```code
$ sudo zypper install teleport-ent-fips
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Tarball" >

In the example commands below, update `$SYSTEM_ARCH` with the appropriate
value (`amd64`, `arm64`, or `arm`). All example commands using this variable
will update after one is filled out.

```code
$ curl https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-ent-v(=teleport.version=)-linux-<Var name="$SYSTEM_ARCH"/>-bin.tar.gz.sha256
# <checksum> <filename>
$ curl -O https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-ent-v(=teleport.version=)-linux-<Var name="$SYSTEM_ARCH"/>-bin.tar.gz
$ shasum -a 256 teleport-ent-v(=teleport.version=)-linux-<Var name="$SYSTEM_ARCH"/>-bin.tar.gz
# Verify that the checksums match
$ tar -xvf teleport-ent-v(=teleport.version=)-linux-<Var name="$SYSTEM_ARCH"/>-bin.tar.gz
$ cd teleport-ent
$ sudo ./install
```

For FedRAMP/FIPS-compliant installations of Teleport Enterprise, package URLs
will be slightly different:

```code
$ curl https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-ent-v(=teleport.version=)-linux-<Var name="$SYSTEM_ARCH"/>-fips-bin.tar.gz.sha256
# <checksum> <filename>
$ curl -O https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-ent-v(=teleport.version=)-linux-<Var name="$SYSTEM_ARCH"/>-fips-bin.tar.gz
$ shasum -a 256 teleport-ent-v(=teleport.version=)-linux-<Var name="$SYSTEM_ARCH"/>-fips-bin.tar.gz
# Verify that the checksums match
$ tar -xvf teleport-ent-v(=teleport.version=)-linux-<Var name="$SYSTEM_ARCH"/>-fips-bin.tar.gz
$ cd teleport-ent
$ sudo ./install
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

[teleport-update] Agent managed updates documentation (#52024) (#52640)
* docs wip

* wip 2

* wip 3

* remove roles

* wip

* wip 4

* wip 5

* wip 6

* cli 1

* next

* cli ref

* Autoupdate docs edition:

- ban subjective and marketting words such as "new", "old", "original",
  "next-generation", "previous", and consolidate to Managed Updates v1/v2
- change the installation snippets to document the unified installer
  (except the linux-cloud one).
- change the autoupdate architecture page to reflect the design changes
  between v1 and v2
- make the autoupdate v2 guide not Cloud-specific
- fix configuration examples
- add troublshooting commands

* Fix broken links

* managed updates -> Managed Updates

* fixup! Fix broken links

* finish teleport-update reference, fix typo

* Add unified installer + align names + fix typos

* style feedback

* title fixes

* cleanup

* lint

* Address feedback + fix spell + fix bash command



* Simplify install script docs + fix links



* try to appease linter

* fixup! try to appease linter

* Apply suggestions from code review



* Address final feedback

---------

Signed-off-by: hugoShaka <hugo.hervieux@goteleport.com>
Co-authored-by: Stephen Levine <stephen.levine@goteleport.com>
Co-authored-by: Paul Gottschling <paul.gottschling@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/includes/install-linux-ent-self-hosted.mdx, after:

{{ to-install="teleport-ent" }}
The easiest installation method, for Teleport versions 17.3 and above, is the
cluster install script. It will use the best version, edition, and installation
mode for your cluster.

1. Assign <Var name="teleport.example.com:443"/> to your Teleport cluster hostname.
   This should contain you cluster hostname and port, but not the scheme (https://).

1. Run your cluster's install script:

   ```code
   $ curl "https://<Var name="example.teleport.sh:443"/>/scripts/install.sh" | sudo bash
   ```

The other installation methods are:
<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Debian 9+/Ubuntu 16.04+ (apt)">

```code
$ sudo mkdir -p /etc/apt/keyrings
# Download Teleport's PGP public key
$ sudo curl https://apt.releases.teleport.dev/gpg \
-o /etc/apt/keyrings/teleport-archive-keyring.asc
# Source variables about OS version
$ source /etc/os-release
# Add the Teleport APT repository for v(=teleport.major_version=). You'll need to update this
# file for each major release of Teleport.
$ echo "deb [signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/teleport-archive-keyring.asc] \
https://apt.releases.teleport.dev/${ID?} ${VERSION_CODENAME?} stable/v(=teleport.major_version=)" \
| sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/teleport.list > /dev/null

$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install {{ to-install }}
```

For FedRAMP/FIPS-compliant installations, install the `teleport-ent-fips` package instead:

```code
$ sudo apt-get install teleport-ent-fips
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Amazon Linux 2/RHEL 7 (yum)">

```code
# Source variables about OS version
$ source /etc/os-release
# Add the Teleport YUM repository for v(=teleport.major_version=). You'll need to update this
# file for each major release of Teleport.
# First, get the major version from $VERSION_ID so this fetches the correct
# package version.
$ VERSION_ID=$(echo $VERSION_ID | grep -Eo "^[0-9]+")
$ sudo yum install -y yum-utils
$ sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo "$(rpm --eval "https://yum.releases.teleport.dev/$ID/$VERSION_ID/Teleport/%{_arch}/stable/v(=teleport.major_version=)/teleport.repo")"
$ sudo yum install {{ to-install }}
#
# Tip: Add /usr/local/bin to path used by sudo (so 'sudo tctl users add' will work as per the docs)
# echo "Defaults    secure_path = /sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/local/bin" > /etc/sudoers.d/secure_path
```

For FedRAMP/FIPS-compliant installations, install the `teleport-ent-fips` package instead:

```code
$ sudo yum install teleport-ent-fips
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Amazon Linux 2/RHEL 7 (zypper)">

```code
# Source variables about OS version
$ source /etc/os-release
# Add the Teleport Zypper repository for v(=teleport.major_version=). You'll need to update this
# file for each major release of Teleport.
# First, get the OS major version from $VERSION_ID so this fetches the correct
# package version.
$ VERSION_ID=$(echo $VERSION_ID | grep -Eo "^[0-9]+")
# Use zypper to add the teleport RPM repo
$ sudo zypper addrepo --refresh --repo $(rpm --eval "https://zypper.releases.teleport.dev/$ID/$VERSION_ID/Teleport/%{_arch}/stable/cloud/teleport-zypper.repo")
$ sudo yum install {{ to-install }}
#
# Tip: Add /usr/local/bin to path used by sudo (so 'sudo tctl users add' will work as per the docs)
# echo "Defaults    secure_path = /sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/local/bin" > /etc/sudoers.d/secure_path
```

For FedRAMP/FIPS-compliant installations, install the `teleport-ent-fips` package instead:

```code
$ sudo yum install teleport-ent-fips
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Amazon Linux 2023/RHEL 8+ (dnf)">

```code
# Source variables about OS version
$ source /etc/os-release
# Add the Teleport YUM repository for v(=teleport.major_version=). You'll need to update this
# file for each major release of Teleport.
# First, get the major version from $VERSION_ID so this fetches the correct
# package version.
$ VERSION_ID=$(echo $VERSION_ID | grep -Eo "^[0-9]+")
# Use the dnf config manager plugin to add the teleport RPM repo
$ sudo dnf config-manager --add-repo "$(rpm --eval "https://yum.releases.teleport.dev/$ID/$VERSION_ID/Teleport/%{_arch}/stable/v(=teleport.major_version=)/teleport.repo")"

# Install teleport
$ sudo dnf install {{ to-install }}

# Tip: Add /usr/local/bin to path used by sudo (so 'sudo tctl users add' will work as per the docs)
# echo "Defaults    secure_path = /sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/local/bin" > /etc/sudoers.d/secure_path
```

For FedRAMP/FIPS-compliant installations, install the `teleport-ent-fips` package instead:

```code
$ sudo dnf install teleport-ent-fips
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="SLES 12 SP5+ and 15 SP5+ (zypper)">

```code
# Source variables about OS version
$ source /etc/os-release
# Add the Teleport Zypper repository.
# First, get the OS major version from $VERSION_ID so this fetches the correct
# package version.
$ VERSION_ID=$(echo $VERSION_ID | grep -Eo "^[0-9]+")
# Use Zypper to add the teleport RPM repo
$ sudo zypper addrepo --refresh --repo $(rpm --eval "https://zypper.releases.teleport.dev/$ID/$VERSION_ID/Teleport/%{_arch}/stable/v(=teleport.major_version=)/teleport-zypper.repo")

# Install teleport
$ sudo zypper install {{ to-install }}
```

For FedRAMP/FIPS-compliant installations, install the `teleport-ent-fips` package instead:

```code
$ sudo zypper install teleport-ent-fips
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Tarball" >

In the example commands below, update `$SYSTEM_ARCH` with the appropriate
value (`amd64`, `arm64`, or `arm`). All example commands using this variable
will update after one is filled out.

```code
$ curl https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-ent-v(=teleport.version=)-linux-<Var name="$SYSTEM_ARCH"/>-bin.tar.gz.sha256
# <checksum> <filename>
$ curl -O https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-ent-v(=teleport.version=)-linux-<Var name="$SYSTEM_ARCH"/>-bin.tar.gz
$ shasum -a 256 teleport-ent-v(=teleport.version=)-linux-<Var name="$SYSTEM_ARCH"/>-bin.tar.gz
# Verify that the checksums match
$ tar -xvf teleport-ent-v(=teleport.version=)-linux-<Var name="$SYSTEM_ARCH"/>-bin.tar.gz
$ cd teleport-ent
$ sudo ./install
```

For FedRAMP/FIPS-compliant installations of Teleport Enterprise, package URLs
will be slightly different:

```code
$ curl https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-ent-v(=teleport.version=)-linux-<Var name="$SYSTEM_ARCH"/>-fips-bin.tar.gz.sha256
# <checksum> <filename>
$ curl -O https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-ent-v(=teleport.version=)-linux-<Var name="$SYSTEM_ARCH"/>-fips-bin.tar.gz
$ shasum -a 256 teleport-ent-v(=teleport.version=)-linux-<Var name="$SYSTEM_ARCH"/>-fips-bin.tar.gz
# Verify that the checksums match
$ tar -xvf teleport-ent-v(=teleport.version=)-linux-<Var name="$SYSTEM_ARCH"/>-fips-bin.tar.gz
$ cd teleport-ent
$ sudo ./install
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
