docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx, before:

Install Teleport on your Linux server:

1. Assign <Var name="edition" /> to one of the following, depending on your
   Teleport edition:

   | Edition                           | Value        |
   |-----------------------------------|--------------|
   | Teleport Enterprise Cloud         | `cloud`      |
   | Teleport Enterprise (Self-Hosted) | `enterprise` |
   | Teleport Community Edition        | `oss`        |

1. Get the version of Teleport to install. If you have automatic agent updates
   enabled in your cluster, query the latest Teleport version that is compatible
   with the updater:

   ```code
   $ TELEPORT_DOMAIN=<Var name="example.teleport.com" />
   $ TELEPORT_VERSION="$(curl https://$TELEPORT_DOMAIN/v1/webapi/automaticupgrades/channel/default/version | sed 's/v//')"
   ```
   
   Otherwise, get the version of your Teleport cluster:
   
   ```code 
   $ TELEPORT_DOMAIN=<Var name="example.teleport.com" />
   $ TELEPORT_VERSION="$(curl https://$TELEPORT_DOMAIN/v1/webapi/ping | jq -r '.server_version')"
   ```

1. Install Teleport on your Linux server:

   ```code
   $ curl (=teleport.teleport_install_script_url=) | bash -s ${TELEPORT_VERSION} <Var name="edition" />
   ```

   The installation script detects the package manager on your Linux server and
   uses it to install Teleport binaries. To customize your installation, learn
   about the Teleport package repositories in the [installation
   guide](../installation.mdx#linux).

Commit message:

[teleport-update] Agent managed updates documentation (#52024) (#52640)
* docs wip

* wip 2

* wip 3

* remove roles

* wip

* wip 4

* wip 5

* wip 6

* cli 1

* next

* cli ref

* Autoupdate docs edition:

- ban subjective and marketting words such as "new", "old", "original",
  "next-generation", "previous", and consolidate to Managed Updates v1/v2
- change the installation snippets to document the unified installer
  (except the linux-cloud one).
- change the autoupdate architecture page to reflect the design changes
  between v1 and v2
- make the autoupdate v2 guide not Cloud-specific
- fix configuration examples
- add troublshooting commands

* Fix broken links

* managed updates -> Managed Updates

* fixup! Fix broken links

* finish teleport-update reference, fix typo

* Add unified installer + align names + fix typos

* style feedback

* title fixes

* cleanup

* lint

* Address feedback + fix spell + fix bash command



* Simplify install script docs + fix links



* try to appease linter

* fixup! try to appease linter

* Apply suggestions from code review



* Address final feedback

---------

Signed-off-by: hugoShaka <hugo.hervieux@goteleport.com>
Co-authored-by: Stephen Levine <stephen.levine@goteleport.com>
Co-authored-by: Paul Gottschling <paul.gottschling@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx, after:

To install a Teleport Agent on your Linux server:

The easiest installation method, for *Teleport versions 17.3 and above*, is the
cluster install script. It will use the best version, edition, and installation
mode for your cluster.

1. Assign <Var name="teleport.example.com:443"/> to your Teleport cluster hostname.
   This should contain you cluster hostname and port, but not the scheme (https://).

1. Run your cluster's install script:

   ```code
   $ curl "https://<Var name="example.teleport.sh:443"/>/scripts/install.sh" | sudo bash
   ```

On *older Teleport versions*:

1. Assign <Var name="edition" /> to one of the following, depending on your
   Teleport edition:

   | Edition                           | Value        |
   |-----------------------------------|--------------|
   | Teleport Enterprise Cloud         | `cloud`      |
   | Teleport Enterprise (Self-Hosted) | `enterprise` |
   | Teleport Community Edition        | `oss`        |

1. Get the version of Teleport to install. If you have automatic agent updates
   enabled in your cluster, query the latest Teleport version that is compatible
   with the updater:

   ```code
   $ TELEPORT_DOMAIN=<Var name="example.teleport.com" />
   $ TELEPORT_VERSION="$(curl https://$TELEPORT_DOMAIN/v1/webapi/automaticupgrades/channel/default/version | sed 's/v//')"
   ```

   Otherwise, get the version of your Teleport cluster:

   ```code
   $ TELEPORT_DOMAIN=<Var name="example.teleport.com" />
   $ TELEPORT_VERSION="$(curl https://$TELEPORT_DOMAIN/v1/webapi/ping | jq -r '.server_version')"
   ```

1. Install Teleport on your Linux server:

   ```code
   $ curl (=teleport.teleport_install_script_url=) | bash -s ${TELEPORT_VERSION} <Var name="edition" />
   ```

   The installation script detects the package manager on your Linux server and
   uses it to install Teleport binaries. To customize your installation, learn
   about the Teleport package repositories in the [installation
   guide](../installation.mdx#linux).
