docs/pages/includes/install-event-handler.mdx, before:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Linux">

```code
$ curl -L -O https://get.gravitational.com/teleport-event-handler-v(=teleport.plugin.version=)-linux-amd64-bin.tar.gz
$ tar -zxvf teleport-event-handler-v(=teleport.plugin.version=)-linux-amd64-bin.tar.gz
$ sudo ./teleport-event-handler/install
```

We currently only build the Event Handler plugin for amd64 machines. For ARM
architecture, you can build from source.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="macOS">

```code
$ curl -L -O https://get.gravitational.com/teleport-event-handler-v(=teleport.plugin.version=)-darwin-amd64-bin.tar.gz
$ tar -zxvf teleport-event-handler-v(=teleport.plugin.version=)-darwin-amd64-bin.tar.gz
$ sudo ./teleport-event-handler/install
```

We currently only build the event handler plugin for amd64 machines. If your
macOS machine uses Apple silicon, you will need to [install
Rosetta](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT211861) before you can run the
event handler plugin. You can also build from source.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Docker">
Ensure that you have Docker installed and running.

```code
$ docker pull public.ecr.aws/gravitational/teleport-plugin-event-handler:(=teleport.plugin.version=)
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Helm">

To allow Helm to install charts that are hosted in the Teleport Helm repository, use `helm repo add`:

```code
$ helm repo add teleport (=teleport.helm_repo_url=)
```

To update the cache of charts from the remote repository, run `helm repo update`:

```code
$ helm repo update
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Build via Go">

You will need Go >= (=teleport.golang=) installed.

Run the following commands on your Universal Forwarder host:

```code
$ git clone https://github.com/gravitational/teleport.git --depth 1
$ cd teleport/integrations/event-handler
$ git checkout (=teleport.plugin.version=)
$ make build
```

The resulting executable will have the name `event-handler`. To follow the
rest of this guide, rename this file to `teleport-event-handler` and move it
to `/usr/local/bin`.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

docs: update plugins download and build instrs (#44215)
Co-authored-by: Steven Martin <stevenmartin@stevens-mbp.lan>

docs/pages/includes/install-event-handler.mdx, after:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Linux">

The Event Handler plugin is provided in `amd64` and `arm64` binaries for downloading.
Replace `ARCH` with your required version.

```code
$ curl -L -O https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-event-handler-v(=teleport.plugin.version=)-linux-<Var name="ARCH" />-bin.tar.gz
$ tar -zxvf teleport-event-handler-v(=teleport.plugin.version=)-linux-<Var name="ARCH" />-bin.tar.gz
$ sudo ./teleport-event-handler/install
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="macOS">

The Event Handler plugin is provided in `amd64` and `arm64` binaries for downloading.
Replace `ARCH` with your required version.

```code
$ curl -L -O https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-event-handler-v(=teleport.plugin.version=)-darwin-<Var name="ARCH" />-bin.tar.gz
$ tar -zxvf teleport-event-handler-v(=teleport.plugin.version=)-darwin-<Var name="ARCH" />-bin.tar.gz
$ sudo ./teleport-event-handler/install
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Docker">
Ensure that you have Docker installed and running.

```code
$ docker pull public.ecr.aws/gravitational/teleport-plugin-event-handler:(=teleport.plugin.version=)
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Helm">

To allow Helm to install charts that are hosted in the Teleport Helm repository, use `helm repo add`:

```code
$ helm repo add teleport (=teleport.helm_repo_url=)
```

To update the cache of charts from the remote repository, run `helm repo update`:

```code
$ helm repo update
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Build via Go">

You will need Go >= (=teleport.golang=) installed.

Run the following commands on your Universal Forwarder host:

```code
$ git clone https://github.com/gravitational/teleport.git --depth 1 -b branch/v(=teleport.major_version=)
$ cd teleport/integrations/event-handler
$ git checkout (=teleport.plugin.version=)
$ make build
```

The resulting executable will have the name `event-handler`. To follow the
rest of this guide, rename this file to `teleport-event-handler` and move it
to `/usr/local/bin`.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
