docs/pages/includes/permission-warning.mdx, before:

<Details title="Before you begin: read security tips">

  When running Teleport in production, we recommend that you follow the
  practices below to avoid security incidents. These practices may differ from
  the examples used in this guide, which are intended for demo environments:

  - Avoid using `sudo` in production environments unless it's necessary.
  - Create new, non-root, users and use test instances for experimenting with Teleport.
  - Run Teleport's services as a non-root user unless required. Only the SSH
    Service requires root access. Note that you will need root permissions (or
    the `CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE` capability) to make Teleport listen on a port
    numbered < `1024` (e.g. `443`).
  - Follow the "Principle of Least Privilege" (PoLP). Don't give users
    permissive roles when giving them more restrictive roles will do instead.
    For example, assign users the built-in `access,editor` roles.
  - When joining a Teleport resource service (e.g., the Database Service or
    Application Service) to a cluster, save the invitation token to a file.
    Otherwise, the token will be visible when examining the `teleport` command
    that started the agent, e.g., via the `history` command on a compromised
    system.

</Details>

Commit message:

permission-warning.mdx: Advise NOT TO give access,editor to users (#28091)
* permission-warning.mdx: Advise NOT TO give access,editor to users

* Give users an alternative rather than indicating what not to do

Co-authored-by: Paul Gottschling <paul.gottschling@goteleport.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Paul Gottschling <paul.gottschling@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/includes/permission-warning.mdx, after:

<Details title="Before you begin: read security tips">

  When running Teleport in production, we recommend that you follow the
  practices below to avoid security incidents. These practices may differ from
  the examples used in this guide, which are intended for demo environments:

  - Avoid using `sudo` in production environments unless it's necessary.
  - Create new, non-root, users and use test instances for experimenting with Teleport.
  - Run Teleport's services as a non-root user unless required. Only the SSH
    Service requires root access. Note that you will need root permissions (or
    the `CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE` capability) to make Teleport listen on a port
    numbered < `1024` (e.g. `443`).
  - Follow the "Principle of Least Privilege" (PoLP). Don't give users
    permissive roles when giving them more restrictive roles will do instead.
    For example, don't assign users the built-in `access,editor` roles, which give
    them permissions to access and edit all cluster resources. Instead, define 
    RBAC roles with the minimum required permissions for each user and configure
    Access Requests for elevated permissions.
  - When joining a Teleport resource service (e.g., the Database Service or
    Application Service) to a cluster, save the invitation token to a file.
    Otherwise, the token will be visible when examining the `teleport` command
    that started the agent, e.g., via the `history` command on a compromised
    system.

</Details>
