docs/pages/includes/start-event-handler.mdx, before:

Start the Teleport Teleport Event Handler by following the instructions below.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Linux server">
Copy the `teleport-event-handler.toml` file to `/etc` on your Linux server.

Next, create a systemd service definition at the path
`/usr/lib/systemd/system/teleport-event-handler.service` with the following
content:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=Teleport Event Handler
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
Restart=always
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/teleport-event-handler start --config=/etc/teleport-event-handler.toml --teleport-refresh-enabled=true
ExecReload=/bin/kill -HUP $MAINPID
PIDFile=/run/teleport-event-handler.pid

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

If you are not using Machine ID to provide short-lived credentials to the Event
Handler, you can remove the `--teleport-refresh-enabled true` flag.

Enable and start the plugin:

```code
$ sudo systemctl enable teleport-event-handler
$ sudo systemctl start teleport-event-handler
```

<Details title="Choose when to start exporting events">

You can configure when you would like the Teleport Event Handler to begin
exporting events when you run the `start` command. This example will start
exporting from May 5th, 2021:

```code
$ teleport-event-handler start --config /etc/teleport-event-handler.toml --start-time "2021-05-05T00:00:00Z"
```

You can only determine the start time once, when first running the Teleport
Event Handler. If you want to change the time frame later, remove the plugin
state directory that you specified in the `storage` field of the handler's
configuration file.

</Details>

Once the Teleport Event Handler starts, you will see notifications about scanned
and forwarded events:

```code
$ sudo journalctl -u teleport-event-handler
DEBU   Event sent id:f19cf375-4da6-4338-bfdc-e38334c60fd1 index:0 ts:2022-09-21
18:51:04.849 +0000 UTC type:cert.create event-handler/app.go:140
...
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Helm chart">
Run the following command on your workstation:

```code
$ helm install teleport-plugin-event-handler teleport/teleport-plugin-event-handler \
  --values teleport-plugin-event-handler-values.yaml \
  --version (=teleport.plugin.version=)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

[v16] docs: update teleport event handler service instructions (#43997)
* docs: update teleport event handler service instructions

* docs: update verbiage on abs paths for event hanfler

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Steven Martin <stevenmartin@Stevens-MBP.fios-router.home>
Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/includes/start-event-handler.mdx, after:

Start the Teleport Teleport Event Handler by following the instructions below.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Linux server">
Copy the `teleport-event-handler.toml` file to `/etc` on your Linux server.
Update the settings within the `toml` file to match your environment. Make sure to
use absolute paths on settings such as `identity` and `storage`. Files
and directories in use should only be accessible to the system user executing
the `teleport-event-handler` service such as `/var/lib/teleport-event-handler`.

Next, create a systemd service definition at the path
`/usr/lib/systemd/system/teleport-event-handler.service` with the following
content:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=Teleport Event Handler
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
Restart=always
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/teleport-event-handler start --config=/etc/teleport-event-handler.toml --teleport-refresh-enabled=true
ExecReload=/bin/kill -HUP $MAINPID
PIDFile=/run/teleport-event-handler.pid

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

If you are not using Machine ID to provide short-lived credentials to the Event
Handler, you can remove the `--teleport-refresh-enabled true` flag.

Enable and start the plugin:

```code
$ sudo systemctl enable teleport-event-handler
$ sudo systemctl start teleport-event-handler
```

<Details title="Choose when to start exporting events">

You can configure when you would like the Teleport Event Handler to begin
exporting events when you run the `start` command. This example will start
exporting from May 5th, 2021:

```code
$ teleport-event-handler start --config /etc/teleport-event-handler.toml --start-time "2021-05-05T00:00:00Z"
```

You can only determine the start time once, when first running the Teleport
Event Handler. If you want to change the time frame later, remove the plugin
state directory that you specified in the `storage` field of the handler's
configuration file.

</Details>

Once the Teleport Event Handler starts, you will see notifications about scanned
and forwarded events:

```code
$ sudo journalctl -u teleport-event-handler
DEBU   Event sent id:f19cf375-4da6-4338-bfdc-e38334c60fd1 index:0 ts:2022-09-21
18:51:04.849 +0000 UTC type:cert.create event-handler/app.go:140
...
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Helm chart">
Run the following command on your workstation:

```code
$ helm install teleport-plugin-event-handler teleport/teleport-plugin-event-handler \
  --values teleport-plugin-event-handler-values.yaml \
  --version (=teleport.plugin.version=)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
