docs/pages/includes/tls-certificate-setup.mdx, before:

If you are running Teleport on the internet, we recommend using Let's Encrypt to
receive your key and certificate automatically. For private networks or custom
deployments, use your own private key and certificate.
<Tabs>

  <TabItem label="Public internet deployment with Let's Encrypt">
    Let's Encrypt verifies that you control the domain name of your Teleport cluster
    by communicating with the HTTPS server listening on port 443 of your Teleport
    Proxy Service.

    You can configure the Teleport Proxy Service to complete the Let's Encrypt
    verification process when it starts up.

    On the host where you will start the Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service,
    run the following `teleport configure` command, where `tele.example.com` is the
    domain name of your Teleport cluster and `user@example.com` is an email address
    used for notifications (you can use any domain):

    ```code
    $ teleport configure --acme --acme-email=<Var name="user@example.com" description="Your email address to register with Let's Encrypt for TLS certificates" /> --cluster-name=<Var name="tele.example.com" description="The domain name of your Teleport cluster" /> | \
    sudo tee /etc/teleport.yaml > /dev/null
    ```

    The `--acme`, `--acme-email`, and `--cluster-name` flags will add the following
    settings to your Teleport configuration file:

    ```yaml
    proxy_service:
      enabled: "yes"
      web_listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:443
      public_addr: tele.example.com:443
      acme:
        enabled: "yes"
        email: user@example.com
    ```

    Port 443 on your Teleport Proxy Service host must allow traffic from all sources.
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="Private network deployment">
  On your Teleport host, place a valid private key and a certificate chain in `/var/lib/teleport/privkey.pem`
  and `/var/lib/teleport/fullchain.pem` respectively.

  The leaf certificate must have a subject that corresponds to the domain of your Teleport host, e.g., `*.teleport.example.com`.

  Configure Teleport, changing the values of the `--cluster-name` and `--public-addr` flags to match the domain name of your Teleport host.

  ```code
  $ sudo teleport configure -o file \
      --cluster-name=tele.example.com \
      --public-addr=tele.example.com:443 \
      --cert-file=/var/lib/teleport/fullchain.pem \
      --key-file=/var/lib/teleport/privkey.pem
  ```
  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

Commit message:

Make Teleport config instructions easier to follow (#27582)
In the `docs/pages/includes/tls-certificate-setup.mdx` partial, one code
snippet includes an escape character after a pipe in order to render a
shell command across two lines. For users who copy the command manually,
this can lead to unexpected results. This change removes the escape
character and renders the command on one line.

This change also makes the use of `Var` components in code snippets more
explicit so users aren't tempted to paste the example command into, say,
a browser address bar in order to change the placeholder values. (This
is what led to issues with the escape character to begin with.)

docs/pages/includes/tls-certificate-setup.mdx, after:

If you are running Teleport on the internet, we recommend using Let's Encrypt to
receive your key and certificate automatically. For private networks or custom
deployments, use your own private key and certificate.
<Tabs>

  <TabItem label="Public internet deployment with Let's Encrypt">
    Let's Encrypt verifies that you control the domain name of your Teleport cluster
    by communicating with the HTTPS server listening on port 443 of your Teleport
    Proxy Service.

    You can configure the Teleport Proxy Service to complete the Let's Encrypt
    verification process when it starts up.

    On the host where you will start the Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service,
    run the following `teleport configure` command. Assign 
    <Var name="tele.example.com" /> to the
    domain name of your Teleport cluster and <Var name="user@example.com" /> to
    an email address used for notifications (you can use any domain):

    ```code
    $ teleport configure --acme --acme-email=<Var name="user@example.com" description="Your email address to register with Let's Encrypt for TLS certificates" /> --cluster-name=<Var name="tele.example.com" description="The domain name of your Teleport cluster" /> | sudo tee /etc/teleport.yaml > /dev/null
    ```

    The `--acme`, `--acme-email`, and `--cluster-name` flags will add the following
    settings to your Teleport configuration file:

    ```yaml
    proxy_service:
      enabled: "yes"
      web_listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:443
      public_addr: tele.example.com:443
      acme:
        enabled: "yes"
        email: user@example.com
    ```

    Port 443 on your Teleport Proxy Service host must allow traffic from all sources.
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="Private network deployment">
  On your Teleport host, place a valid private key and a certificate chain in `/var/lib/teleport/privkey.pem`
  and `/var/lib/teleport/fullchain.pem` respectively.

  The leaf certificate must have a subject that corresponds to the domain of your Teleport host, e.g., `*.teleport.example.com`.

  On the host where you will start the Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service,
  run the following `teleport configure` command. Assign <Var
  name="tele.example.com" /> to the domain name of your Teleport cluster.

  ```code
  $ sudo teleport configure -o file \
      --cluster-name=<Var name="tele.example.com" /> \
      --public-addr=<Var name="tele.example.com" />:443 \
      --cert-file=/var/lib/teleport/fullchain.pem \
      --key-file=/var/lib/teleport/privkey.pem
  ```
  </TabItem>

</Tabs>
