docs/pages/server-access/guides/host-user-creation.mdx, before:

---
title: Configure Teleport to Create Host Users
description: How to configure Teleport to automatically create transient host users.
---

Teleport's SSH Service can be configured to automatically create local Unix users
upon login.

This saves you from having to manually create users for each member of an
organization and provides more fine-grained control of permissions on a given
host. Host users created by Teleport are transient and will be deleted at the
end of an SSH session.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A running Teleport Node. See the [Server Access Getting Started Guide](../getting-started.mdx) for  how to add a Node to your Teleport cluster.
- The following utilities should be available in the PATH for the Teleport SSH Service,
since it must execute these commands in order to create transient users:
  - `useradd`
  - `userdel`
  - `usermod`
  - `groupadd`
  - `getent`
  - `visudo`
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/2. Configure a role

First, create a role with `create_host_user` set to `true`. This will allow users
with this role to have transient host users created at login time.

The following role specification will allow users to log in as `nginxrestarter` on
any matching Node. The host user will be created and added to the groups listed in
`host_groups`. They will also be given permission to restart the Nginx service as
root.

Save the file below as `auto-users.yaml`

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: auto-users
spec:
  options:
    # Allow automatic creation of users.
    create_host_user: true
  allow:
    logins: [ "nginxrestarter" ]
    # List of host groups the created user will be added to. Any that don't already exist are created.
    host_groups: [ubuntu, nginx, other]
    # List of entries to include in a temporary sudoers file created in /etc/sudoers.d
    host_sudoers: [
       # This line will allow the `nginxrestarter` user to run
       # `systemctl restart nginx.service` as
       # root without requiring a password.
       # The sudoers entries will be prefixed with `nginxrestarter` in this case.
       # sudoers file reference documentation: https://www.sudo.ws/docs/man/1.8.17/sudoers.man/
       "ALL = (root) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/systemctl restart nginx.service"
    ]
    node_labels:
      'env': 'devel'
```
Create the role:
```code
$ tctl create -f auto-users.yaml
# role 'auto-users' has been created
```

Each value of the `logins` field must conform to the username requirements
of the Linux distribution being used. See [User/Group Name Syntax](https://systemd.io/USER_NAMES/) for requirements in common distributions.

<Admonition type="warning">

When a Teleport user accesses an SSH Service instance, Teleport checks each of
the user's roles that match the instance. If at least one role matches the
instance but does not include `create_host_user: true`, automatic user creation
will be disabled. Roles that do not match the Node will not be checked.

</Admonition>

<Admonition type="warning">

When multiple roles contain `host_sudoers` entries, the sudoers file
will have the entries written to it ordered by role name

</Admonition>

If a role includes a `deny` rule that sets `host_sudoers` to `'*'`, the user will
have all sudoers entries removed when accessing matching Nodes, otherwise `deny`
rules are matched literally when filtering:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: auto-users
spec:
  options:
    create_host_user: true
  deny:
    host_sudoers: [
       "*" # ensure that users in this role never have sudoers files created on matching Nodes
       "ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL" # host_sudoers entries matching this are filtered out
    ]
    node_labels:
      'env': 'devel'
```

If an SSH Node must never allow the automatic creation of transient Unix users
you can set `disable_create_host_user` to `true` in the Node's configuration:

```yaml
# teleport.yaml
teleport:
  nodename: node
ssh_service:
  enabled: true
  # Disable automatic host user creation on this Node, regardless of role permissions.
  disable_create_host_user: true
```

(!docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx role="auto-users"!)

## Step 2/2 Test host user creation

When you connect to a remote Node via `tsh`, and host user creation is enabled, the
Teleport SSH Service will automatically create a user on the host:

```code
$ tsh login
$ tsh ssh nginxrestarter@develnode
$ grep "nginxrestarter" /etc/passwd
# nginxrestarter:x:1001:1003::/home/nginxrestarter:/bin/bash
$ grep "other" /etc/group
# other:x:1002:nginxrestarter
$ exit
$ tsh ssh admin@develnode # checking the user was deleted after logout
$ grep "nginxrestarter" /etc/passwd
$ echo $?
# 1
```

When the user above logs in, the `nginxrestarter` user and any groups that do
not already exist are created on the host. The `nginxrestarter` user is added to
the `ubuntu`, `nginx`, and `other` groups, as specified in the `host_groups`
field.

The Teleport SSH Service executes `useradd` to create new users on the host, and
returns an error if it cannot find the `useradd` binary. The `useradd` command
creates a new home directory with the name of the new host user and adds the
user to the groups specified in the Teleport user's roles.

Aside from specifying a home directory and groups, the SSH Service executes
`useradd` with the system defaults. For example, it associates the user with the
default login shell for the host, which you can specify by setting the `SHELL`
field in `/etc/default/useradd`. See the `useradd` manual for your system for a
full description of the default behavior.

The Teleport SSH Service also creates a file in `/etc/sudoers.d` with the
contents of the `host_sudoers` file written with one entry per line, each
prefixed with the username of the user that has logged in.

The session can then proceed as usual, however once the SSH session ends, the user
will be automatically removed and their home directory will be deleted. Files owned
by the deleted user, created outside the home directory, will remain in place. Groups
that were created will remain on the system after the session ends.

Should a Teleport SSH instance be restarted while a session is in progress, the user
will be cleaned up at the next Teleport restart.

## Next steps

- Configure automatic user provisioning for [Desktop Access](../../desktop-access/rbac.mdx#automatic-user-creation).

Commit message:

[v12] Add option to allow for host users not to be deleted  (#28433)
* Add option to allow for host users not to be deleted

This adds a new role option called create_host_users_mode which allows
for it to be configured to not delete users when a session ends. The
old `create_host_user` option will be deprecated with this.

If the deprecated option is set, the new mode option will default to
dropping users as is the current behavior.

add generated protos

use combined output for commands, dont set CreateHostUser

fix tests

ci fixes

add godocs to HostUserMode constants, fix tests

remain -> keep

Use an enum instead of a string

fix merge errors

Add tests & resolve comments

Resolve issues

fmt

* Document create_host_user_mode

untabify

resolve comments

docs/pages/server-access/guides/host-user-creation.mdx, after:

---
title: Configure Teleport to Create Host Users
description: How to configure Teleport to automatically create transient host users.
---

Teleport's SSH Service can be configured to automatically create local Unix users
upon login.

This saves you from having to manually create users for each member of an
organization and provides more fine-grained control of permissions on a given
host. Host users created by Teleport are transient and will be deleted at the
end of an SSH session.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A running Teleport Node. See the [Server Access Getting Started Guide](../getting-started.mdx) for  how to add a Node to your Teleport cluster.
- The following utilities should be available in the PATH for the Teleport SSH Service,
since it must execute these commands in order to create transient users:
  - `useradd`
  - `userdel`
  - `usermod`
  - `groupadd`
  - `getent`
  - `visudo`
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/2. Configure a role

First, create a role with `create_host_user_mode` set to `drop` or `keep`.

Setting the option to `drop` will create transient users that are deleted once the
session ends. Setting it to `keep` will create permanent users on the host at
login time.

The following role specification will allow users to log in as `nginxrestarter` on
any matching Node. The host user will be created and added to the groups listed in
`host_groups`. They will also be given permission to restart the Nginx service as
root.

Save the file below as `auto-users.yaml`

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: auto-users
spec:
  options:
    # Allow automatic creation of users.
    create_host_user_mode: drop
  allow:
    logins: [ "nginxrestarter" ]
    # List of host groups the created user will be added to. Any that don't already exist are created.
    host_groups: [ubuntu, nginx, other]
    # List of entries to include in a temporary sudoers file created in /etc/sudoers.d
    host_sudoers: [
       # This line will allow the `nginxrestarter` user to run
       # `systemctl restart nginx.service` as
       # root without requiring a password.
       # The sudoers entries will be prefixed with `nginxrestarter` in this case.
       # sudoers file reference documentation: https://www.sudo.ws/docs/man/1.8.17/sudoers.man/
       "ALL = (root) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/systemctl restart nginx.service"
    ]
    node_labels:
      'env': 'devel'
```
Create the role:
```code
$ tctl create -f auto-users.yaml
# role 'auto-users' has been created
```

Each value of the `logins` field must conform to the username requirements
of the Linux distribution being used. See [User/Group Name Syntax](https://systemd.io/USER_NAMES/) for requirements in common distributions.

<Admonition type="warning">

When a Teleport user accesses an SSH Service instance, Teleport checks each of the
user's roles that match the instance. If at least one role matches the instance
but does not specify `create_host_user_mode` to be either `keep` or `drop`,
automatic user creation will be disabled. Roles that do not match the server will
not be checked.

If multiple roles match where one might specify `keep` and another `drop`,
Teleport will default to `keep`, retaining the user on the server after the session
ends.

</Admonition>

<Admonition type="warning">

When multiple roles contain `host_sudoers` entries, the sudoers file
will have the entries written to it ordered by role name

</Admonition>

If a role includes a `deny` rule that sets `host_sudoers` to `'*'`, the user will
have all sudoers entries removed when accessing matching Nodes, otherwise `deny`
rules are matched literally when filtering:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: auto-users
spec:
  options:
    create_host_user_mode: drop
  deny:
    host_sudoers: [
       "*" # ensure that users in this role never have sudoers files created on matching Nodes
       "ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL" # host_sudoers entries matching this are filtered out
    ]
    node_labels:
      'env': 'devel'
```

If an SSH Node must never allow the automatic creation of transient Unix users
you can set `disable_create_host_user` to `true` in the Node's configuration:

```yaml
# teleport.yaml
teleport:
  nodename: node
ssh_service:
  enabled: true
  # Disable automatic host user creation on this Node, regardless of role permissions.
  disable_create_host_user: true
```

(!docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx role="auto-users"!)

## Step 2/2 Test host user creation

When you connect to a remote Node via `tsh`, and host user creation is enabled, the
Teleport SSH Service will automatically create a user on the host:

```code
$ tsh login
$ tsh ssh nginxrestarter@develnode
$ grep "nginxrestarter" /etc/passwd
# nginxrestarter:x:1001:1003::/home/nginxrestarter:/bin/bash
$ grep "other" /etc/group
# other:x:1002:nginxrestarter
$ exit
$ tsh ssh admin@develnode # checking the user was deleted after logout
$ grep "nginxrestarter" /etc/passwd
$ echo $?
# 1
```

When the user above logs in, the `nginxrestarter` user and any groups that do
not already exist are created on the host. The `nginxrestarter` user is added to
the `ubuntu`, `nginx`, and `other` groups, as specified in the `host_groups`
field.

The Teleport SSH Service executes `useradd` to create new users on the host, and
returns an error if it cannot find the `useradd` binary. The `useradd` command
creates a new home directory with the name of the new host user and adds the
user to the groups specified in the Teleport user's roles.

Aside from specifying a home directory and groups, the SSH Service executes
`useradd` with the system defaults. For example, it associates the user with the
default login shell for the host, which you can specify by setting the `SHELL`
field in `/etc/default/useradd`. See the `useradd` manual for your system for a
full description of the default behavior.

The Teleport SSH Service also creates a file in `/etc/sudoers.d` with the
contents of the `host_sudoers` file written with one entry per line, each
prefixed with the username of the user that has logged in.

The session can then proceed as usual, however once the SSH session ends, the user
will be automatically removed and their home directory will be deleted, as the
matching role specified they should be dropped. Files owned by the deleted user,
created outside the home directory, will remain in place. Groups that were created
will remain on the system after the session ends.

Should a Teleport SSH instance be restarted while a session is in progress, the user
will be cleaned up at the next Teleport restart.

## Next steps

- Configure automatic user provisioning for [Desktop Access](../../desktop-access/rbac.mdx#automatic-user-creation).
