docs/pages/server-access/guides/openssh.mdx, before:

---
title: Using Teleport with OpenSSH
description: This guide shows you how to set up Teleport to enable secure access to OpenSSH servers so you can protect legacy systems that do not run a Teleport binary.
videoBanner: x0eYFUEIOrM
---

In this guide, we will show you how to configure the OpenSSH server `sshd` to
join a Teleport cluster. Existing fleets of OpenSSH servers can be configured to
accept SSH certificates dynamically issued by a Teleport CA.

Using Teleport and OpenSSH has the advantage of getting you up
and running, but in the long run, we would recommend replacing `sshd` with `teleport`.
`teleport` SSH servers have support for multiple features that are incompatible with OpenSSH:

- RBAC and resource filtering based on [dynamically updated labels](../../management/admin/labels.mdx)
- [Session recording without SSH connection termination](recording-proxy-mode.mdx)
- [Advanced session recording](bpf-session-recording.mdx)
- [Restricting outbound network connections in SSH sessions](restricted-session.mdx)

Teleport supports OpenSSH by proxying SSH connections through the Proxy Service. When a Teleport user requests to connect to an OpenSSH node, the Proxy Service checks the user's Teleport roles. 

If the RBAC checks succeed, the Proxy Service authenticates to the OpenSSH node with a dynamically generated certificate signed by a Teleport CA. This allows the
Proxy Service to record and audit connections to OpenSSH nodes. 

The Proxy Service prevents Teleport users from bypassing auditing by requiring
a certificate signed by a Teleport CA that only the Auth Service possesses.

In this setup, the Teleport SSH Service performs RBAC checks as well as audits and records sessions on its host, which eliminates the need for connection termination when recording SSH sessions.

## Prerequisites

- OpenSSH version 6.9 or above on your local machine. View your OpenSSH version
  with the command:

  ```code
  $ ssh -V
  ```

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A Linux host with the OpenSSH server `sshd` version 7.4 or above installed,
  but not Teleport. The SSH port on this host must be open to traffic from the
  Teleport Proxy Service host.
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/3. Configure `sshd`

Teleport only allows access to resources in your infrastructure via Teleport
processes that that have joined the cluster.

On the machine the cluster's Proxy Service is running on, use the `tctl` tool to generate a new token. In the
following example, a new token is created with a TTL of five minutes:

```code
$ tctl tokens add --ttl=5m --type=node --format=text
(=presets.tokens.first=)
```

Copy the `teleport` binary to your `sshd` host. Configure `sshd` and create a node
resource on your cluster with the following command, assigning <Var name="proxy" /> to the address of your Teleport Proxy Service,
and <Var name="node" /> to the name of the node that will join the cluster:

```code
$ teleport join openssh --address <Var name="node" /> --proxy-server <Var name="proxy" /> --join-method token --token <TOKEN>
```

Note that both the Teleport Proxy Service and node addresses must contain a host and a port.

## Step 2/3. Generate an SSH client configuration

The next step is to configure your OpenSSH client to connect to your `sshd` host
using credentials managed by Teleport. This configuration will use your user's
Teleport-issued certificate to authenticate to the `sshd` host. It will also
authenticate the `sshd` host using the host certificate you generated earlier.

First, make sure you have logged in to your Teleport cluster:

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss"]}>

```code
$ tsh status
> Profile URL:        https://teleport.example.com:443
  Logged in as:       myuser
  Cluster:            teleport.example.com
  Roles:              access, auditor, editor, host-certifier
  Logins:             ubuntu, root
  Kubernetes:         enabled
  Valid until:        2022-05-06 22:54:01 -0400 EDT [valid for 11h53m0s]
  Extensions:         permit-agent-forwarding, permit-port-forwarding, permit-pty
```

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["enterprise"]}>

```code
$ tsh status
> Profile URL:        https://teleport.example.com:443
  Logged in as:       myuser
  Cluster:            teleport.example.com
  Roles:              access, auditor, editor, reviewer, host-certifier
  Logins:             ubuntu, root
  Kubernetes:         enabled
  Valid until:        2022-05-06 22:54:01 -0400 EDT [valid for 11h53m0s]
  Extensions:         permit-agent-forwarding, permit-port-forwarding, permit-pty
```

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

```code
$ tsh status
> Profile URL:        https://mytenant.teleport.sh:443
  Logged in as:       myuser
  Cluster:            mytenant.teleport.sh
  Roles:              access, auditor, editor, reviewer, host-certifier
  Logins:             ubuntu, root
  Kubernetes:         enabled
  Valid until:        2022-05-06 22:54:01 -0400 EDT [valid for 11h53m0s]
  Extensions:         permit-agent-forwarding, permit-port-forwarding, permit-pty
```

</ScopedBlock>

On your local machine, run the following `tsh` command. This will print a
configuration block that tells your SSH client to use credentials managed by
Teleport to connect to hosts in your cluster.

```code
$ tsh config > ssh_config_teleport
```

This command creates an SSH configuration file at a nonstandard location in
order to make it easier to clean up, but you can append the output of
`tsh config` to the default SSH config file (`~/.ssh/config`) if you wish.

<Details title="How does the config work?">

Teleport implements an SSH server that includes several **subsystems**, or
predefined commands that are run when the server handles a connection. The Proxy
Service implements a `proxy` subsystem that forwards SSH traffic to remote hosts
and Trusted Clusters.

Here is a brief explanation of the configuration that `tsh config` generates:

```
# Common flags for all {{ .ClusterName }} hosts
Host *.{{ .ClusterName }} {{ .ProxyHost }}
    UserKnownHostsFile "{{ .KnownHostsPath }}"
    IdentityFile "{{ .IdentityFilePath }}"
    CertificateFile "{{ .CertificateFilePath }}"
```

If the host you are `ssh`ing into belongs to your Teleport cluster (i.e., its
address is a subdomain of your cluster's domain), use a Teleport-managed known
hosts file, private key, and certificate that are stored in the `.tsh`
directory.

```
# Flags for all {{ .ClusterName }} hosts except the proxy
Host *.{{ .ClusterName }} !{{ .ProxyHost }}
    Port 3022
    ProxyCommand "{{ .TSHPath }}" proxy ssh --cluster={{ .ClusterName }} --proxy={{ .ProxyHost }} %r@%h:%p
```

If the host that you are `ssh`ing into belongs to your Teleport cluster, the
OpenSSH client will first execute a command, the `ProxyCommand`, that
establishes an SSH connection to the Proxy Service. This command,
`tsh proxy ssh`, requests the `proxy` subsystem in order to forward SSH traffic
through the Proxy Service to your chosen host (including a host in a Trusted
Cluster).

The `tsh proxy ssh` command requests the `proxy` subsystem through a command
similar to the following, which assumes you are logging in to a node called
`mynode` as `root` with a cluster called `teleport.example.com`:

```code
$ /usr/bin/ssh -l root -A -o UserKnownHostsFile=/root/.tsh/known_hosts -p 11105 teleport.example.com -s proxy:mynode:3022@teleport.example.com
```

Notice that the `known_hosts` file used by the command is managed by `tsh`.
Since the `sshd` host's information is listed in this file, your SSH client can
authenticate the host via the certificate we generated earlier.

</Details>

<Details title="Using PowerShell on Windows?">

  If using PowerShell on Windows, note that normal shell redirection may write
  the file with the incorrect encoding. To ensure it's written properly, try the
  following:

  ```code
  $ tsh.exe config | out-file .ssh\config -encoding utf8 -append
  ```

</Details>

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Multiple Clusters"
>

  If you switch between multiple Teleport Proxy Servers, you'll need to re-run
  `tsh config` for each to generate the cluster-specific configuration.

  Similarly, if Trusted Clusters are added or removed, be sure to re-run
  `tsh config` and replace the previous configuration.

</Admonition>

## Step 3/3. Connect to your `sshd` host

Once you have appended the new text to your OpenSSH client configuration file,
you can log in to your `sshd` host using the configuration we generated earlier.

First, define environment variables for the address of your Teleport cluster,
the username you will use to log in to your `sshd` host, and the port on your
`sshd` host you are using for SSH traffic:

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

```code
# See the available logins you can use to access your sshd host
$ tsh status | grep Logins
Logins:             ubuntu, root
$ USER=ubuntu
$ CLUSTER=teleport.example.com
$ PORT=22
```

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

```code
# See the available logins you can use to access your sshd host
$ tsh status | grep Logins
Logins:             ubuntu, root
$ USER=ubuntu
$ CLUSTER=mytenant.teleport.sh
$ PORT=22
```

</ScopedBlock>

Next, SSH in to your remote host:

```code
$ ssh -p ${PORT?} -F ssh_config_teleport "${USER?}@${ADDR?}.${CLUSTER?}"
```

This name does not need to be resolvable via DNS as the connection will be
routed through your Teleport Proxy Service.

<Details title="Why are we overriding the port here?">

By default, the OpenSSH client configuration generated by `tsh config` directs
the Teleport Proxy Service to dial port 3022 of a node in your Teleport cluster.
This works if the node's SSH Service is listening on port 3022, and means that
you can connect to the Teleport SSH Service via your OpenSSH client.

 When you join a Teleport node to a cluster, the node creates a reverse tunnel
 to the cluster's Proxy Service. When you run an `ssh` command to access a host
 in your Teleport cluster using the configuration we generated, the Teleport
 Proxy Service will attempt to connect to the host via this reverse tunnel and,
 if that fails, try directly dialing the address.

In our case, the `sshd` host is not running Teleport, so no reverse tunnel will
exist. Instead, the Proxy Service will establish a direct connection on the
host's SSH port.

</Details>

<Details title="Using Trusted Clusters?">

You can log in to a host in a Trusted Cluster by placing the name of the cluster
between the name of the node and the name of your root Teleport cluster:

```code
$ ssh -F ssh_config_teleport ${USER?}@node2.leafcluster.${CLUSTER}
```

</Details>

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Note"
>

  Teleport uses OpenSSH certificates instead of keys. When you connect to a
  remote host, OpenSSH verifies that the address of the host is listed under the
  `Principals` section of the OpenSSH certificate. Usually, this is a fully
  qualified domain name, rather than an IP address.

</Admonition>

## Revoke an SSH certificate

Teleport's approach to using short-lived certificates for all infrastructure
access means that it can generate large numbers of certificates every day. For
this reason, Teleport does not support traditional certificate revocation.

There are two options available for revoking access: CA rotations, and Teleport locks.

### CA Rotations

To generate a new certificate authority and invalidate user certificates issued
by the current CA, run `tctl auth rotate --type-user`. This process will require
that the newly generated CA certificate is uploaded to your entire fleet of
OpenSSH servers. This can be a disruptive change, especially in environments
that lack automation, so proceed with caution.

### Locks

Teleport locks allow you to permanently or temporarily revoke access to a number
of different "targets". Supported lock targets include: specific users, roles,
servers, desktops, or MFA devices. When a lock is created any existing sessions
where the lock applies will be terminated, and new sessions will be rejected while
the lock remains in force.

For more information, read our
[Session and Identity Locking Guide](../../access-controls/guides/locking.mdx).

Commit message:

[v13] docs: openssh updates (#28726)
* docs: openssh updates

* instructions update

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>
Co-authored-by: Alex Fornuto <alex.fornuto@goteleport.com>

* update language and variables

* verbiage update

Co-authored-by: Alex Fornuto <alex.fornuto@goteleport.com>

* incorporate edits from #28824

---------

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>
Co-authored-by: Alex Fornuto <alex.fornuto@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/server-access/guides/openssh.mdx, after:

---
title: Using Teleport with OpenSSH
description: This guide shows you how to set up Teleport to enable secure access to OpenSSH servers so you can protect legacy systems that do not run a Teleport binary.
videoBanner: x0eYFUEIOrM
---

In this guide, we will show you how to configure the OpenSSH server `sshd` to
join a Teleport cluster. Existing fleets of OpenSSH servers can be configured to
accept SSH certificates dynamically issued by a Teleport CA.

Using Teleport and OpenSSH has the advantage of getting you up
and running, but in the long run, we would recommend replacing `sshd` with `teleport`.
`teleport` SSH servers have support for multiple features that are incompatible with OpenSSH:

- RBAC and resource filtering based on [dynamically updated labels](../../management/admin/labels.mdx)
- [Session recording without SSH connection termination](recording-proxy-mode.mdx)
- [Advanced session recording](bpf-session-recording.mdx)
- [Restricting outbound network connections in SSH sessions](restricted-session.mdx)

Teleport supports OpenSSH by proxying SSH connections through the Proxy Service. When a Teleport user requests to connect to an OpenSSH node, the Proxy Service checks the user's Teleport roles. 

If the RBAC checks succeed, the Proxy Service authenticates to the OpenSSH node with a dynamically generated certificate signed by a Teleport CA. This allows the
Proxy Service to record and audit connections to OpenSSH nodes. 

The Proxy Service prevents Teleport users from bypassing auditing by requiring
a certificate signed by a Teleport CA that only the Auth Service possesses.

In this setup, the Teleport SSH Service performs RBAC checks as well as audits and records sessions on its host, which eliminates the need for connection termination when recording SSH sessions.

## Prerequisites

- OpenSSH version 6.9 or above on your local machine. View your OpenSSH version
  with the command:

  ```code
  $ ssh -V
  ```

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A Linux host with the OpenSSH server `sshd` version 7.4 or above installed,
  but not Teleport. The SSH port on this host must be open to traffic from the
  Teleport Proxy Service host.
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/3. Configure `sshd`

Teleport only allows access to resources in your infrastructure via Teleport
processes that that have joined the cluster.

To register the OpenSSH node, you must have a valid auth token to connect to the cluster.
You can generate the token by running the following command against your Teleport Auth Service:

```code
$ tctl tokens add --type=node --format=text
(=presets.tokens.first=)
```

Copy the `teleport` binary to your `sshd` host. Configure `sshd` and create a node
resource on your cluster with the following command:

```code
$ sudo teleport join openssh \
  --address <Var name="server1.example.com:22" /> \
  --proxy-server <Var name="teleport.example.com:443" /> \
  --join-method token \
  --token <Var name="token" /> \
  --labels env=dev
```

Change the command-line options to assign the following values:
- Set to the address and port of your Teleport Proxy Service.
- Set to the address and port of the node that will join the cluster.
- Set to the token value.

Check that your new node is listed with `tsh ls` or in the Web UI.  You can edit the
hostname and labels with `tctl edit nodes/<hostname>`.  If the hostname isn't unique get the UUID
from `tctl nodes ls -v` and edit with `tctl edit nodes/<uuid>`.

## Step 2/3. Generate an SSH client configuration

The next step is to configure your OpenSSH client to connect to your `sshd` host
using credentials managed by Teleport. This configuration will use your user's
Teleport-issued certificate to authenticate to the `sshd` host. It will also
authenticate the `sshd` host using the host certificate you generated earlier.

First, make sure you have logged in to your Teleport cluster:

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss"]}>

```code
$ tsh status
> Profile URL:        https://teleport.example.com:443
  Logged in as:       myuser
  Cluster:            teleport.example.com
  Roles:              access, auditor, editor, host-certifier
  Logins:             ubuntu, root
  Kubernetes:         enabled
  Valid until:        2022-05-06 22:54:01 -0400 EDT [valid for 11h53m0s]
  Extensions:         permit-agent-forwarding, permit-port-forwarding, permit-pty
```

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["enterprise"]}>

```code
$ tsh status
> Profile URL:        https://teleport.example.com:443
  Logged in as:       myuser
  Cluster:            teleport.example.com
  Roles:              access, auditor, editor, reviewer, host-certifier
  Logins:             ubuntu, root
  Kubernetes:         enabled
  Valid until:        2022-05-06 22:54:01 -0400 EDT [valid for 11h53m0s]
  Extensions:         permit-agent-forwarding, permit-port-forwarding, permit-pty
```

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

```code
$ tsh status
> Profile URL:        https://mytenant.teleport.sh:443
  Logged in as:       myuser
  Cluster:            mytenant.teleport.sh
  Roles:              access, auditor, editor, reviewer, host-certifier
  Logins:             ubuntu, root
  Kubernetes:         enabled
  Valid until:        2022-05-06 22:54:01 -0400 EDT [valid for 11h53m0s]
  Extensions:         permit-agent-forwarding, permit-port-forwarding, permit-pty
```

</ScopedBlock>

On your local machine, run the following `tsh` command. This will print a
configuration block that tells your SSH client to use credentials managed by
Teleport to connect to hosts in your cluster.

```code
$ tsh config > ssh_config_teleport
```

This command creates an SSH configuration file at a nonstandard location in
order to make it easier to clean up, but you can append the output of
`tsh config` to the default SSH config file (`~/.ssh/config`) if you wish.

<Details title="How does the config work?">

Teleport implements an SSH server that includes several **subsystems**, or
predefined commands that are run when the server handles a connection. The Proxy
Service implements a `proxy` subsystem that forwards SSH traffic to remote hosts
and Trusted Clusters.

Here is a brief explanation of the configuration that `tsh config` generates:

```
# Common flags for all {{ .ClusterName }} hosts
Host *.{{ .ClusterName }} {{ .ProxyHost }}
    UserKnownHostsFile "{{ .KnownHostsPath }}"
    IdentityFile "{{ .IdentityFilePath }}"
    CertificateFile "{{ .CertificateFilePath }}"
```

If the host you are `ssh`ing into belongs to your Teleport cluster (i.e., its
address is a subdomain of your cluster's domain), use a Teleport-managed known
hosts file, private key, and certificate that are stored in the `.tsh`
directory.

```
# Flags for all {{ .ClusterName }} hosts except the proxy
Host *.{{ .ClusterName }} !{{ .ProxyHost }}
    Port 3022
    ProxyCommand "{{ .TSHPath }}" proxy ssh --cluster={{ .ClusterName }} --proxy={{ .ProxyHost }} %r@%h:%p
```

If the host that you are `ssh`ing into belongs to your Teleport cluster, the
OpenSSH client will first execute a command, the `ProxyCommand`, that
establishes an SSH connection to the Proxy Service. This command,
`tsh proxy ssh`, requests the `proxy` subsystem in order to forward SSH traffic
through the Proxy Service to your chosen host (including a host in a Trusted
Cluster).

The `tsh proxy ssh` command requests the `proxy` subsystem through a command
similar to the following, which assumes you are logging in to a node called
`mynode` as `root` with a cluster called `teleport.example.com`:

```code
$ /usr/bin/ssh -l root -A -o UserKnownHostsFile=/root/.tsh/known_hosts -p 11105 teleport.example.com -s proxy:mynode:3022@teleport.example.com
```

Notice that the `known_hosts` file used by the command is managed by `tsh`.
Since the `sshd` host's information is listed in this file, your SSH client can
authenticate the host via the certificate we generated earlier.

</Details>

<Details title="Using PowerShell on Windows?">

  If using PowerShell on Windows, note that normal shell redirection may write
  the file with the incorrect encoding. To ensure it's written properly, try the
  following:

  ```code
  $ tsh.exe config | out-file .ssh\config -encoding utf8 -append
  ```

</Details>

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Multiple Clusters"
>

  If you switch between multiple Teleport Proxy Servers, you'll need to re-run
  `tsh config` for each to generate the cluster-specific configuration.

  Similarly, if Trusted Clusters are added or removed, be sure to re-run
  `tsh config` and replace the previous configuration.

</Admonition>

## Step 3/3. Connect to your `sshd` host

Once you have appended the new text to your OpenSSH client configuration file,
you can log in to your `sshd` host using the configuration we generated earlier.

First, define environment variables for the address of your Teleport cluster,
the username you will use to log in to your `sshd` host, and the port on your
`sshd` host you are using for SSH traffic:

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

```code
# See the available logins you can use to access your sshd host
$ tsh status | grep Logins
Logins:             ubuntu, root
$ USER=ubuntu
$ CLUSTER=teleport.example.com
$ PORT=22
```

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

```code
# See the available logins you can use to access your sshd host
$ tsh status | grep Logins
Logins:             ubuntu, root
$ USER=ubuntu
$ CLUSTER=mytenant.teleport.sh
$ PORT=22
```

</ScopedBlock>

Next, SSH in to your remote host:

```code
$ ssh -p ${PORT?} -F ssh_config_teleport "${USER?}@${ADDR?}.${CLUSTER?}"
```

This name does not need to be resolvable via DNS as the connection will be
routed through your Teleport Proxy Service.

<Details title="Why are we overriding the port here?">

By default, the OpenSSH client configuration generated by `tsh config` directs
the Teleport Proxy Service to dial port 3022 of a node in your Teleport cluster.
This works if the node's SSH Service is listening on port 3022, and means that
you can connect to the Teleport SSH Service via your OpenSSH client.

 When you join a Teleport node to a cluster, the node creates a reverse tunnel
 to the cluster's Proxy Service. When you run an `ssh` command to access a host
 in your Teleport cluster using the configuration we generated, the Teleport
 Proxy Service will attempt to connect to the host via this reverse tunnel and,
 if that fails, try directly dialing the address.

In our case, the `sshd` host is not running Teleport, so no reverse tunnel will
exist. Instead, the Proxy Service will establish a direct connection on the
host's SSH port.

</Details>

<Details title="Using Trusted Clusters?">

You can log in to a host in a Trusted Cluster by placing the name of the cluster
between the name of the node and the name of your root Teleport cluster:

```code
$ ssh -F ssh_config_teleport ${USER?}@node2.leafcluster.${CLUSTER}
```

</Details>

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Note"
>

  Teleport uses OpenSSH certificates instead of keys. When you connect to a
  remote host, OpenSSH verifies that the address of the host is listed under the
  `Principals` section of the OpenSSH certificate. Usually, this is a fully
  qualified domain name, rather than an IP address.

</Admonition>

## Revoke an SSH certificate

Teleport's approach to using short-lived certificates for all infrastructure
access means that it can generate large numbers of certificates every day. For
this reason, Teleport does not support traditional certificate revocation.

There are two options available for revoking access: CA rotations, and Teleport locks.

### CA Rotations

To generate a new certificate authority and invalidate user certificates issued
by the current CA, run `tctl auth rotate --type-user`. This process will require
that the newly generated CA certificate is uploaded to your entire fleet of
OpenSSH servers. This can be a disruptive change, especially in environments
that lack automation, so proceed with caution.

### Locks

Teleport locks allow you to permanently or temporarily revoke access to a number
of different "targets". Supported lock targets include: specific users, roles,
servers, desktops, or MFA devices. When a lock is created any existing sessions
where the lock applies will be terminated, and new sessions will be rejected while
the lock remains in force.

For more information, read our
[Session and Identity Locking Guide](../../access-controls/guides/locking.mdx).
