docs/pages/server-access/guides.mdx, before:

---
title: Server Access Guides
description: Teleport server access guides.
layout: tocless-doc
---

- [Using Teleport with PAM](./guides/ssh-pam.mdx): How to configure Teleport SSH with PAM (Pluggable Authentication Modules).
- [OpenSSH Guide](./guides/openssh.mdx): How to use Teleport on legacy systems with OpenSSH and sshd.
- [Recording Proxy Mode](./guides/recording-proxy-mode.mdx): How to use Teleport Recording Proxy Mode to capture activity on OpenSSH servers.
- [BPF Session Recording](./guides/bpf-session-recording.mdx): How to use BPF to record SSH session commands, modified files and network connections.
- [Restricted Session](./guides/restricted-session.mdx): How to configure and use Restricted Session to apply security policies to SSH sessions.
- [Visual Studio Code](./guides/vscode.mdx): How to remotely develop with Visual Studio Code and Teleport.
- [JetBrains SFTP](./guides/jetbrains-sftp.mdx): How to use a JetBrains IDE to access SFTP with Teleport.
- [Host User Creation](./guides/host-user-creation.mdx): How to configure Teleport to automatically create transient host users.
- [Linux Auditing System](./guides/auditd.mdx): How to integrate Teleport with the Linux Auditing System (auditd).
- [EC2 Instance Discovery](./guides/ec2-discovery.mdx): How to configure Teleport to automatically enroll EC2 instances.
- [Azure Instance Discovery](./guides/azure-discovery.mdx): How to configure Teleport to automatically enroll Azure virtual machines.
- [Using Teleport with Ansible](./guides/ansible.mdx): How to use Ansible with
  Teleport-issued SSH credentials.

Commit message:

[v13] Mention agentless in the OpenSSH guide for better SEO (#28923)
* Mention agentless in the OpenSSH guide for better SEO

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Alex Fornuto <alex.fornuto@goteleport.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Alex Fornuto <alex.fornuto@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/server-access/guides.mdx, after:

---
title: Server Access Guides
description: Teleport server access guides.
layout: tocless-doc
---

- [Using Teleport with PAM](./guides/ssh-pam.mdx): How to configure Teleport SSH with PAM (Pluggable Authentication Modules).
- [Agentless OpenSSH Integration](./guides/openssh.mdx): How to use Teleport in agentless mode on systems with OpenSSH and `sshd`.
- [Recording Proxy Mode](./guides/recording-proxy-mode.mdx): How to use Teleport Recording Proxy Mode to capture activity on OpenSSH servers.
- [BPF Session Recording](./guides/bpf-session-recording.mdx): How to use BPF to record SSH session commands, modified files and network connections.
- [Restricted Session](./guides/restricted-session.mdx): How to configure and use Restricted Session to apply security policies to SSH sessions.
- [Visual Studio Code](./guides/vscode.mdx): How to remotely develop with Visual Studio Code and Teleport.
- [JetBrains SFTP](./guides/jetbrains-sftp.mdx): How to use a JetBrains IDE to access SFTP with Teleport.
- [Host User Creation](./guides/host-user-creation.mdx): How to configure Teleport to automatically create transient host users.
- [Linux Auditing System](./guides/auditd.mdx): How to integrate Teleport with the Linux Auditing System (auditd).
- [EC2 Instance Discovery](./guides/ec2-discovery.mdx): How to configure Teleport to automatically enroll EC2 instances.
- [Azure Instance Discovery](./guides/azure-discovery.mdx): How to configure Teleport to automatically enroll Azure virtual machines.
- [Using Teleport with Ansible](./guides/ansible.mdx): How to use Ansible with
  Teleport-issued SSH credentials.
