docs/pages/server-access/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: Teleport Server Access Features and Introduction
description: Teleport server access features and introduction.
videoBanner: EsEvO5ndNDI
---

Teleport consolidates SSH access across all environments, decreases
configuration complexity, supports industry best practices and compliance while
giving complete visibility over all sessions and events.

Teleport server access is designed for the following kinds of scenarios:

1. When up to a vast number of clusters must be managed using the command-line (`tsh`) or programmatically (through the Teleport API) and you want to simplify your stack, security, and configuration complexity.
2. When security team members must track and audit every user session. 
3. When Teleport users require a complete, dedicated, and secure SSH option (Teleport Node running in SSH mode) and more than a certificate authority (Teleport Auth) with proxy (Teleport Proxy).
4. When resource and network security must be maximized: SSH certificates over secret keys, Two-Factor Authentication (2FA), Single Sign-On (SSO), and short-lived certificates.

## Getting started

- [Get started](getting-started.mdx): Get started using Teleport server access
  in 10 minutes. Server access for most common SSH use-cases.
- [Integrate with OpenSSH](guides/openssh.mdx): You can use Teleport-issued
  certificates to access legacy OpenSSH servers on hosts where there is no
  Teleport installation.

## Guides

- [Using Teleport with PAM](./guides/ssh-pam.mdx): How to configure Teleport SSH with PAM (Pluggable Authentication Modules).
- [OpenSSH Guide](./guides/openssh.mdx): How to use Teleport on legacy systems with OpenSSH and sshd.
- [Recording Proxy Mode](./guides/recording-proxy-mode.mdx): How to use Teleport Recording Proxy Mode to capture activity on OpenSSH servers.
- [BPF Session Recording](./guides/bpf-session-recording.mdx): How to use BPF to record SSH session commands, modified files and network connections.
- [Restricted Session](./guides/restricted-session.mdx): How to configure and use Restricted Session to apply security policies to SSH sessions.
- [Visual Studio Code](./guides/vscode.mdx): How to remotely develop with Visual Studio Code and Teleport.

Commit message:

Mention agentless in the OpenSSH guide for better SEO (#28749)
* Mention agentless in the OpenSSH guide for better SEO

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Alex Fornuto <alex.fornuto@goteleport.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Alex Fornuto <alex.fornuto@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/server-access/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: Teleport Server Access Features and Introduction
description: Teleport server access features and introduction.
videoBanner: EsEvO5ndNDI
---

Teleport consolidates SSH access across all environments, decreases
configuration complexity, supports industry best practices and compliance while
giving complete visibility over all sessions and events.

Teleport server access is designed for the following kinds of scenarios:

1. When up to a vast number of clusters must be managed using the command-line (`tsh`) or programmatically (through the Teleport API) and you want to simplify your stack, security, and configuration complexity.
2. When security team members must track and audit every user session. 
3. When Teleport users require a complete, dedicated, and secure SSH option (Teleport Node running in SSH mode) and more than a certificate authority (Teleport Auth) with proxy (Teleport Proxy).
4. When resource and network security must be maximized: SSH certificates over secret keys, Two-Factor Authentication (2FA), Single Sign-On (SSO), and short-lived certificates.

## Getting started

- [Get started](getting-started.mdx): Get started using Teleport server access
  in 10 minutes. Server access for most common SSH use-cases.

## Guides

- [Using Teleport with PAM](./guides/ssh-pam.mdx): How to configure Teleport SSH with PAM (Pluggable Authentication Modules).
- [Agentless OpenSSH Integration](./guides/openssh.mdx): How to use Teleport in agentless mode on systems with OpenSSH and `sshd`.
- [Recording Proxy Mode](./guides/recording-proxy-mode.mdx): How to use Teleport Recording Proxy Mode to capture activity on OpenSSH servers.
- [BPF Session Recording](./guides/bpf-session-recording.mdx): How to use BPF to record SSH session commands, modified files and network connections.
- [Restricted Session](./guides/restricted-session.mdx): How to configure and use Restricted Session to apply security policies to SSH sessions.
- [Visual Studio Code](./guides/vscode.mdx): How to remotely develop with Visual Studio Code and Teleport.
