docs/gen-topic-pages/README.md, before:

# Topic page generator

The topic page generator automatically generates menu pages at each level of a
chosen directory tree. Each menu page has the same name as its corresponding
directory, and lists the contents of that directory within the docs. 

## Usage examples

Create two menu pages for each subdirectory within the directory trees rooted at
`docs/pages/management` and `docs/pages/security`:

```bash
$ node docs/gen-topic-pages/index.js --in docs/pages/management,docs/pages/security
```

Let's assume that `docs/pages/management` contains the following subdirectories:

- `docs/pages/management/authentication`
- `docs/pages/management/authorization`

In this case, the script creates the following menu pages:

- `docs/pages/management.mdx`
- `docs/pages/security.mdx`
- `docs/pages/management/authentication.mdx`
- `docs/pages/management/authorization.mdx`

## Configuration

The generator assumes that each menu page has a comment with the following
value:

```
{/*TOPICS*/}
```

When the generator runs, it automatically adds a table of contents below the
comment. This allows authors to include introductory text before the list of
links. The generator throws an error if there is a table of contents page
without this comment.

The script assumes that each MDX page includes frontmatter with keys `title` and
`description`. The script uses this information to populate each menu of links.

Commit message:

Respond to docs reorganization feedback
- Move the Enroll Resources section out of Admin Guides and into a
  top-level section.

- Include all possible docs pages in the sidebar. To do this, flatten
  all docs section as much as possible to fit within the maximum sidebar
  depth while including five top-level sidebar sections.

  Some subsections of the docs only make sense in the current
  organization if the pages within each subjection are deeper than the
  maximum sidebar depth (e.g.,
  `docs/pages/enroll-resources/machine-id/workload-identity`). In these
  cases, each leaf link on the sidebar points to a table of contents
  page for that section, so a user can still find the page they need.

- Edit the sidebar config and `all-topics` script to meet the
  expectations of the automated sidebar generator and, eventually,
  automated sidebar generation in Docusaurus.

  For the most part, this means placing topic pages inside their
  associated directories. The exceptions are the autogenerated Terraform
  provider docs in `docs/pages/reference/terraform-provider`, since
  `terraform-plugin-docs` can only generate index pages outside of the
  associated subdirectory. For this reason, this change also edits the
  `all-topics` script to ignore the Terraform provider reference when
  generating table of contents entries.

- Remove top-level table of contents pages, since these are too long for
  users to navigate comfortably.

docs/gen-topic-pages/README.md, after:

# Topic page generator

The topic page generator automatically generates table of contents pages at each
level of a chosen directory tree. Each menu page has the same name as its parent
directory, and lists the contents of that directory within the docs.

The generator does not create a table of contents for the first level of the
chosen directory tree, since the resulting page is usually too large to be
useful.

## Usage examples

Create two menu pages for each subdirectory within the directory trees rooted at
`docs/pages/management` and `docs/pages/security`:

```bash
$ node docs/gen-topic-pages/index.js --in docs/pages/management,docs/pages/security
```

Let's assume that `docs/pages/management` contains the following subdirectories:

- `docs/pages/management/authentication`
- `docs/pages/management/authorization`

In this case, the script creates the following menu pages:

- `docs/pages/management/management.mdx`
- `docs/pages/security/security.mdx`
- `docs/pages/management/authentication/authentication.mdx`
- `docs/pages/management/authorization/authorization.mdx`

## Configuration

The generator assumes that each menu page has a comment with the following
value:

```
{/*TOPICS*/}
```

When the generator runs, it automatically adds a table of contents below the
comment. This allows authors to include introductory text before the list of
links. The generator throws an error if there is a table of contents page
without this comment.

The script assumes that each MDX page includes frontmatter with keys `title` and
`description`. The script uses this information to populate each menu of links.

## Available flags

```
Options:
  --version  Show version number                                       [boolean]
  --in       Comma-separated list of root directory paths from which to generate
             topic pages. We expect each root directory to include the output in
             a page, within the directory, that has the directory's name"
                                                                      [required]
  --ignore   Comma-separated list of directory paths to skip when generating
             topic pages. The generator will not place a topic page within that
             directory or its children.
  --help     Show help                                                 [boolean]
```
