### Maximum policy size exceeded errors

Due to [IAM and STS character
limits](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_iam-quotas.html#reference_iam-quotas-entity-length),
you may encounter one of the following errors in the Database Service logs when
large numbers of databases are registered:
- `LimitExceeded: Maximum policy size of 2048 bytes exceeded for userÂ <iam-user>`
- `LimitExceeded: Maximum policy size of 10240 bytes exceeded for role <iam-role>`

For reference, a user policy can maintain permissions for approximately 6
Redshift databases, or 20 RDS databases due to the IAM policy character limits.
A role policy can maintain permissions for approximately 30 Redshift databases,
or 100 RDS databases.

To get around this limit, try using one or a combination of the following
methods:

<Details title="Method 1: Organize IAM roles with &quot;assume_role_arn&quot;">
You can reduce the policy size by separating them into multiple IAM roles. Use
`assume_role_arn` to specify different IAM roles for accessing the databases:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Auto-Discovery by Discovery Service">
  You can specify `assume_role_arn` in the AWS matchers of Discovery Service's
  configuration:
  ```yaml
  discovery_service:
    enabled: "yes"
    aws:
      - types: ["rds"]
        regions: ["us-west-1", "us-west-2"]
        assume_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/example-role-rds-env-prod-discovery"
        tags:
          "env": "prod"

      - types: ["redshift", "redshift-serverless"]
        regions: ["us-west-2"]
        assume_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/example-role-redshift-env-dev"
        tags:
          "env": "dev"
  ```
  The Discovery Service will use the IAM roles specified in `assume_role_arn`
  for discovery, and by default the Database Service will use the same IAM
  roles for authentication.

  However, you can also overwrite the IAM roles for authentication by Database
  Service if you wish to use different roles:
  ```yaml
  db_service:
    enabled: "yes"
    resources:
      # Matches us-west-1 env=prod RDS databases from Discovery Service, and
      # overwrites assume_role_arn.
      - labels:
          "env": "prod"
          "region": "us-west-1"
        aws:
          assume_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/example-role-rds-env-prod-us-west-1-access"

      # Matches us-west-2 env=prod RDS databases from Discovery Service, and
      # overwrites assume_role_arn.
      - labels:
          "env": "prod"
          "region": "us-west-2"
        aws:
          assume_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/example-role-rds-env-prod-us-west-2-access"

      # Matches env=dev Redshift databases from Discovery Service and inherits
      # "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/example-role-redshift-env-dev"
      - labels:
          "env": "dev"
  ```

  <Admonition type="tip" title="Auto-discovery labels">
  Teleport generates certain labels derived from the cloud resource attributes
  during discovery. See [Auto-Discovery
  labels](../../database-access/reference/labels.mdx#auto-discovery)
  /labels/#auto-discovery)
  for more details.
  </Admonition>

  Create or print the required IAM policies with the following commands and
  attach them to the respective IAM roles:

  ```code
  $ teleport db configure aws create-iam --types redshift,redshift-serverless --name teleport-redshift-access
  $ teleport db configure aws print-iam --types redshift,redshift-serverless
  ```

  Refer to the command usage for a complete list of database types supported by
  the `--types` option.

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="Auto-Discovery by Database Service">
  You can specify `assume_role_arn` in the AWS matchers of Database Service's
  configuration:
  ```yaml
  db_service:
    enabled: "yes"
    aws:
      - types: ["rds"]
        regions: ["us-west-1", "us-west-2"]
        assume_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/example-role-rds-env-prod"
        tags:
          "env": "prod"

      - types: ["redshift", "redshift-serverless"]
        regions: ["us-west-2"]
        assume_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/example-role-redshift-env-dev"
        tags:
          "env": "dev"
  ```
  The Database Service will use the IAM roles specified `assume_role_arn` for
  both discovery and authentication.

  To bootstrap IAM permissions, run the bootstrap command for each `assume_role_arn`:

   ```code
   $ teleport db configure bootstrap \
       -c /etc/teleport.yaml \
       --policy-name teleport-policy-rds-env-prod \
       --attach-to-role "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/example-role-rds-env-prod"
  ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="Static config">
  You can specify `aws.assume_role_arn` when defining databases in Database
  Service's configuration:
  ```yaml
  db_service:
    enabled: "yes"
    databases:
    - name: "rds-postgres"
      protocol: "postgres"
      uri: "rds-postgres.abcdef012345.us-west-1.rds.amazonaws.com:5432"
      aws:
          assume_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/example-rds-access-role"
  ```

  To bootstrap IAM permissions, run the bootstrap command for each `assume_role_arn`:

   ```code
   $ teleport db configure bootstrap \
       -c /etc/teleport.yaml \
       --policy-name teleport-policy-rds-access \
       --attach-to-role "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/example-rds-access-role"
  ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="Other dynamic resources">
  You can specify `aws.assume_role_arn` when defining databases:
  ```yaml
  kind: db
  version: v3
  metadata:
    name: "rds-postgres"
    labels:
      env: "dev"
  spec:
    protocol: "postgres"
    uri: "rds-postgres.abcdef012345.us-west-1.rds.amazonaws.com:5432"
    aws:
      assume_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/example-rds-access-role"
  ```

  Alternatively, you can overwrite the IAM roles for authentication by Database
  Service:
  ```yaml
  db_service:
    enabled: "yes"
    resources:
      # Matches env=dev databases and overwrites assume_role_arn.
      - labels:
          "env": "dev"
        aws:
          assume_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/example-env-dev-access"

      # Matches env=prod database, and use the assume_role_arn in the database's
      # definition or use the host IAM identity if assume_role_arn is empty.
      - labels:
          "env": "prod"
  ```

  Create or print the required IAM policies with the following commands and
  attach them to the respective IAM roles:

  ```code
  $ teleport db configure aws create-iam --types rds --name teleport-rds-access
  $ teleport db configure aws print-iam --types rds
  ```

  Refer to the command usage for a complete list of database types supported by
  the `--types` option.
  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

The IAM roles specified in `assume_role_arn` must
[trust](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/security/how-to-use-trust-policies-with-iam-roles/)
the IAM identity of the host running the Database Service.

The `assume_role_arn` is not limited to the same AWS account so you can also
use this feature for [AWS Cross-Account
Access](../../database-access/enroll-aws-databases/aws-cross-account.mdx).

</Details>

<Details title="Method 2: Manually manage your IAM policies">
You can manually manage IAM policies for database connections instead of
relying on the Database Service to update them.

For example, you can limit the character size by attaching a policy with a
wildcard "*" for "Resource":

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="RDS or RDS Proxy">
  ```json
  {
      "Version": "2012-10-17",
      "Statement": [
          {
              "Effect": "Allow",
              "Action": "rds-db:connect",
              "Resource": "*"
          }
      ]
  }
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Redshift">
  ```json
  {
      "Version": "2012-10-17",
      "Statement": [
          {
              "Effect": "Allow",
              "Action": "redshift:GetClusterCredentials",
              "Resource": "*"
          }
      ]
  }
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

You can safely remove the inline policy created by the Database Service and the
IAM permissions for the Database Service to `Get/Put/Delete` the user or role
policy.

</Details>

<Details title="Method 3: Separate Database Services">

You can deploy [the Database Service in a highly available (HA)
configuration](../../database-access/guides/ha.mdx) where databases can be
sharded to separate Database Services with different IAM roles.

</Details>

<Details title="Method 4: Use IAM roles instead of IAM users">

IAM users have a lower character limit compared to IAM roles. If the limit is
exceeded for a user policy, it is recommended to use IAM roles for the Database
Service instead.

</Details>
