docs/pages/includes/machine-id/daemon.mdx, before:

By default, `tbot` will run in daemon mode. However, this must then be
configured as a service within the service manager on the Linux host. The
service manager will start `tbot` on boot and ensure it is restarted if it
fails. For this guide, systemd will be demonstrated but `tbot` should be
compatible with all common alternatives.

Create a systemd unit file `/etc/systemd/system/tbot.service`:

```systemd
[Unit]
Description=Teleport Machine ID Service
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=teleport
Group=teleport
Restart=always
RestartSec=5
Environment="TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY=1"
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/tbot start -c /etc/tbot.yaml
ExecReload=/bin/kill -HUP $MAINPID
PIDFile=/run/tbot.pid
LimitNOFILE=524288

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Ensure that you replace:

- `teleport` with the name of Linux user you wish to run `tbot` as.
- `/etc/tbot.yaml` with the path to the configuration file you have created

`TELEPORT_ANONYMOUS_TELEMETRY` enables the submission of anonymous usage
telemetry. This helps us shape the future development of `tbot`. You can disable
this by omitting this.

Next, enable the service so that it will start on boot and then start the
service:

```code
$ sudo systemctl daemon-reload
$ sudo systemctl enable tbot
$ sudo systemctl start tbot
```

Check the service has started successfully:

```code
$ sudo systemctl status tbot
```

Commit message:

[v16] Use new `tbot install systemd` command in docs (#44538)
* Add `tbot install systemd` to CLI reference

* Switch systemd unit file creation to new `tbot install systemd`

* Remove unused machine-id-service include

docs/pages/includes/machine-id/daemon.mdx, after:

By default, `tbot` will run in daemon mode. However, this must then be
configured as a service within the service manager on the Linux host. The
service manager will start `tbot` on boot and ensure it is restarted if it
fails. For this guide, systemd will be demonstrated but `tbot` should be
compatible with all common alternatives.

Use `tbot install systemd` to generate a systemd service file:

```code
$ tbot install systemd \
   --write \
   --config /etc/tbot.yaml \
   --user teleport \
   --group teleport \
   --anonymous-telemetry
```

Ensure that you replace:

- `teleport` with the name of Linux user you wish to run `tbot` as.
- `/etc/tbot.yaml` with the path to the configuration file you have created.

You can omit `--write` to print the systemd service file to the console instead
of writing it to disk.

`--anonymous-telemetry` enables the submission of anonymous usage telemetry.
This helps us shape the future development of `tbot`. You can disable this by
omitting this.

Next, enable the service so that it will start on boot and then start the
service:

```code
$ sudo systemctl daemon-reload
$ sudo systemctl enable tbot
$ sudo systemctl start tbot
```

Check the service has started successfully:

```code
$ sudo systemctl status tbot
```
