docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/policy-how-to-use.mdx, before:

---
title: How to use Teleport Policy
description: Using Access Graph with Teleport Policy.
---

Teleport Policy provides a framework for visualizing and managing access controls across an organization’s infrastructure.

This interface enables administrators to efficiently identify and address potential security risks,
such as overly broad permissions or conflicting roles, ensuring that access is granted
on principles of least privilege.

## How to use Teleport Policy feature

Teleport Policy's Access Graph feature can help you to answer questions like:

- Who can access a specific resource?

Determine who has access to resources and understand the pathways that grant access:

![Show Access Path Resource](../../../img/access-graph/show-access-path-resource.gif)

- What resources can a specific user access?

At a glance, you can view all the resources a user can access:

![Show Access Path](../../../img/access-graph/show-access-path.gif)

## Dashboard: Standing Privileges

Teleport Policy's Access Graph dashboard provides a high-level overview of standing privileges across 
your infrastructure.  Standing privileges are the number of resources that an identity can access 
without creating an Access Request. Details about standing privileges can be found by clicking on the
user or bot. 

![Standing Privileges](../../../img/access-graph/standing-privileges.png)

## Graph View

Graph view is the main view that shows the connections between identities and resources.

By default, an aggregated view of access paths grouped by identity is shown.

## Search

To search for a graph node, use the search bar at the top of the page or press `/`.

This will bring up the global search, where you can search for nodes, pages and access paths.

![Search](../../../img/access-graph/search.png)

Clicking on a node will open a drawer with more details about that node.

![Node Information](../../../img/access-graph/node-information.png)

Viewing a node's access path will open up the graph explorer view with the selected node.

![Access Path](../../../img/access-graph/access-path.png)

## Access path view

A node's access path shows all the resources that the node can access.

When viewing an access path, you can filter down the graph to show only the nodes that you are interested in.

For example, if you are viewing a user's access path and want to see what access is given to that user through a certain role, you can right-click the role and select "Add to search".

![Add to search](../../../img/access-graph/add-to-search.png)

This will narrow down the graph to show you only the access paths that include that role.

![Filtered access path](../../../img/access-graph/filtered-access-path.png)

## Graph nodes

Access Graph divides your infrastructure into six main components:

1. Identities

![Identity Node](../../../img/access-graph/identity-node.png)

Identities are the actors that can access your infrastructure. They can be employees, contractors, machines or bots.

The number on the right hand side shows **standing privileges**. The standing privileges metric indicates the number of
resources that an identity can access without creating an Access Request.

2. User Groups

![Identity Group Node](../../../img/access-graph/identity-group-node.png)

Identity Groups are collections of identities. They can be used to organize users
based on their role or team, and they can be nested.

3. Actions

![Action Node](../../../img/access-graph/allow-action-node.png)

Actions are the things that identities can or cannot do. Actions are related to resources.
For example, a user can SSH into a node.

4. Deny Actions

![Deny Action Node](../../../img/access-graph/deny-action-node.png)

Deny Actions are the things that identities cannot do. Deny Actions are related to resources.
For example, a user cannot SSH into a node.

5. Resource Groups

![Resource Group Node](../../../img/access-graph/resource-group-node.png)

Resource Groups are collections of resources. They can be used to organize resources based on their role or team.

The number on the right hand side shows the number of resources that a resource group contains.

6. Resources

![Resource Node](../../../img/access-graph/resource-node.png)

Resources are the things that users can or cannot access. They can be servers, databases, or Kubernetes clusters.

## SQL Editor

Access Graph allows creating SQL like queries to explore the graph.

![SQL Editor](../../../img/access-graph/sql-editor.png)

The query language allows to create different views of the graph, ex:

Show only allowed paths:

```sql
SELECT * FROM access_path WHERE kind = 'ALLOWED';
```

Show only denied paths:
```sql
SELECT * FROM access_path WHERE kind = 'DENIED';
```

Show all access paths for a user:
```sql
SELECT * FROM access_path WHERE identity = 'bob';
```

Show all access paths for a user AND a resource:
```sql
SELECT * FROM access_path WHERE identity = 'bob' AND resource = 'postgres';
```

Show all access paths for resources with specific labels:
```sql
SELECT * FROM access_path WHERE resource_labels @> '{"key": "value"}';
```

You can view more SQL examples in the editor.

Commit message:

docs: new product messaging for marketing launch  (#52319)
* initial draft for marketing changes

* product name changes from marketing

* correcting duplications

* final changes post-marketing review

* review changes

* Update docs/pages/admin-guides/infrastructure-as-code/managing-resources/access-list.mdx

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

* revisions

* cleanup and reverting use-cases of 'Zero Trust Access x'

* Trust Access corrections

* removing 2 images already in master

* post-feedback changes

* Update docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/teleport-policy.mdx

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

* post G2 review feedback

* Lint helm appeasement

---------

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/policy-how-to-use.mdx, after:

---
title: How to use Teleport Identity Security
description: Using Access Graph with Identity Security.
---

Identity Security provides a framework for visualizing and managing access controls across an organization’s infrastructure.

This interface enables administrators to efficiently identify and address potential security risks,
such as overly broad permissions or conflicting roles, ensuring that access is granted
on principles of least privilege.

## How to use Identity Security

Identity Security with Access Graph feature can help you to answer questions like:

- Who can access a specific resource?

Determine who has access to resources and understand the pathways that grant access:

![Show Access Path Resource](../../../img/access-graph/show-access-path-resource.gif)

- What resources can a specific user access?

At a glance, you can view all the resources a user can access:

![Show Access Path](../../../img/access-graph/show-access-path.gif)

## Dashboard: Standing Privileges

The Identity Security with Access Graph dashboard provides a high-level overview of standing privileges across 
your infrastructure.  Standing privileges are the number of resources that an identity can access 
without creating an Access Request. Details about standing privileges can be found by clicking on the
user or bot. 

![Standing Privileges](../../../img/access-graph/standing-privileges.png)

## Graph View

Graph view is the main view that shows the connections between identities and resources.

By default, an aggregated view of access paths grouped by identity is shown.

## Search

To search for a graph node, use the search bar at the top of the page or press `/`.

This will bring up the global search, where you can search for nodes, pages and access paths.

![Search](../../../img/access-graph/search.png)

Clicking on a node will open a drawer with more details about that node.

![Node Information](../../../img/access-graph/node-information.png)

Viewing a node's access path will open up the graph explorer view with the selected node.

![Access Path](../../../img/access-graph/access-path.png)

## Access path view

A node's access path shows all the resources that the node can access.

When viewing an access path, you can filter down the graph to show only the nodes that you are interested in.

For example, if you are viewing a user's access path and want to see what access is given to that user through a certain role, you can right-click the role and select "Add to search".

![Add to search](../../../img/access-graph/add-to-search.png)

This will narrow down the graph to show you only the access paths that include that role.

![Filtered access path](../../../img/access-graph/filtered-access-path.png)

## Graph nodes

Access Graph divides your infrastructure into six main components:

1. Identities

![Identity Node](../../../img/access-graph/identity-node.png)

Identities are the actors that can access your infrastructure. They can be employees, contractors, machines or bots.

The number on the right hand side shows **standing privileges**. The standing privileges metric indicates the number of
resources that an identity can access without creating an Access Request.

2. User Groups

![Identity Group Node](../../../img/access-graph/identity-group-node.png)

Identity Groups are collections of identities. They can be used to organize users
based on their role or team, and they can be nested.

3. Actions

![Action Node](../../../img/access-graph/allow-action-node.png)

Actions are the things that identities can or cannot do. Actions are related to resources.
For example, a user can SSH into a node.

4. Deny Actions

![Deny Action Node](../../../img/access-graph/deny-action-node.png)

Deny Actions are the things that identities cannot do. Deny Actions are related to resources.
For example, a user cannot SSH into a node.

5. Resource Groups

![Resource Group Node](../../../img/access-graph/resource-group-node.png)

Resource Groups are collections of resources. They can be used to organize resources based on their role or team.

The number on the right hand side shows the number of resources that a resource group contains.

6. Resources

![Resource Node](../../../img/access-graph/resource-node.png)

Resources are the things that users can or cannot access. They can be servers, databases, or Kubernetes clusters.

## SQL Editor

Access Graph allows creating SQL like queries to explore the graph.

![SQL Editor](../../../img/access-graph/sql-editor.png)

The query language allows to create different views of the graph, ex:

Show only allowed paths:

```sql
SELECT * FROM access_path WHERE kind = 'ALLOWED';
```

Show only denied paths:
```sql
SELECT * FROM access_path WHERE kind = 'DENIED';
```

Show all access paths for a user:
```sql
SELECT * FROM access_path WHERE identity = 'bob';
```

Show all access paths for a user AND a resource:
```sql
SELECT * FROM access_path WHERE identity = 'bob' AND resource = 'postgres';
```

Show all access paths for resources with specific labels:
```sql
SELECT * FROM access_path WHERE resource_labels @> '{"key": "value"}';
```

You can view more SQL examples in the editor.
