docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/teleport-policy.mdx, before:

---
title: Teleport Policy
description: A reference for Access Graph with Teleport Policy.
---

Teleport Policy unifies management of access policies across your infrastructure.
It hardens your access controls and visually shows up-to-date relationships and policies of all users, groups, and computing resources
It can help you answer questions like:

- What resources can a specific user access?
- What users can access a specific resource?
- What are the relationships between users, roles, and resources?

## Getting started with Teleport Policy

Teleport Policy is a separately licensed product and is available to Teleport Enterprise customers.
Access Graph is a major capability of Teleport Policy that visually shows the relationships of
policies of users, groups, and computing resources.

To verify the availability of the Access Graph, ensure that the Policy icon is present in the navigation sidebar.

<Admonition type="note">
Note: For managed Enterprise customers, Teleport Policy is enabled by default.
If you are a self-hosted Teleport customer, you will need to [deploy the Access Graph Service](../deploy-a-cluster/access-graph/access-graph.mdx) and ensure you have an updated
`license.pem` with Teleport Policy enabled to use it.
</Admonition>

## Teleport Policy guides

(!toc!)

Commit message:

[v17] docs: new product messaging for marketing launch (#52959)
* product name changes from marketing

* correcting duplications

* post-marketing review

* review changes

* Update docs/pages/admin-guides/infrastructure-as-code/managing-resources/access-list.mdx

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

* revisions

* cleanup and reverting use-cases of 'Zero Trust Access x'

* Trust Access corrections

* removing 2 images already in master

* post-feedback changes

* Update docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/teleport-policy.mdx

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

* post G2 review feedback

* Lint helm appeasement

* adding two images from marketing

* moving 2 images to getting-started directory

---------

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/teleport-policy.mdx, after:

---
title: Teleport Identity Security
description: A reference for Access Graph with Identity Security.
---

Teleport Identity Security unifies management of access policies across your infrastructure.
It hardens your access controls and visually shows up-to-date relationships and policies of all users, groups, and computing resources
It can help you answer questions like:

- What resources can a specific user access?
- What users can access a specific resource?
- What are the relationships between users, roles, and resources?

## Getting started with Identity Security

Identity Security is a separately licensed product and is available to Teleport Enterprise customers.
Access Graph is a major capability of Identity Security that visually shows the relationships of
policies of users, groups, and computing resources.

To verify the availability of the Access Graph, ensure that the Policy icon is present in the navigation sidebar.

<Admonition type="note">
Note: For managed Enterprise customers, Identity Security is enabled by default.
If you are a self-hosted Teleport customer, you will need to [deploy the Access Graph Service](../deploy-a-cluster/access-graph/access-graph.mdx) and ensure you have an updated
`license.pem` with Identity Security enabled to use it.
</Admonition>

## Identity Security guides

(!toc!)
