docs/pages/enroll-resources/database-access/enroll-aws-databases/rds-oracle.mdx, before:

---
title: Database Access with AWS RDS Oracle with Kerberos Authentication
description: How to configure Teleport Database Access with AWS RDS Oracle with Kerberos authentication.
---

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/db-introduction.mdx dbType="Amazon RDS for Oracle" dbConfigure="with Kerberos authentication"!)

## How it works

The Teleport Database Service joins the same Active Directory domain as the Oracle
database and uses the Kerberos protocol to authenticate with Oracle.
When a user connects to Oracle via Teleport, the Database Service obtains a
service ticket from Active Directory, then uses a long-term key for the database
user to decrypt the ticket and connect to Oracle. At that point, the
Database Service forwards user traffic to the database.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- An AWS account with the necessary permissions to create RDS instances and AWS Directory Service directories.
- An Amazon RDS for Oracle database instance.
- An AWS Directory Service Managed Microsoft AD.
- A Linux node joined to the same Active Directory domain as the database. This
  guide will walk you through the joining steps if you don't have one.
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/9. Prepare the Oracle RDS Instance

Before configuring Teleport, ensure your Oracle RDS instance has Kerberos authentication and TLS properly configured:

1. Follow the [AWS RDS Oracle Kerberos Setup guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/oracle-kerberos-setting-up.html) to enable Kerberos authentication on your instance.

2. Enable TLS on your Oracle RDS instance by following the [AWS RDS Oracle SSL Setup documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Appendix.Oracle.Options.SSL.html). Ensure `SQLNET.SSL_VERSION` is set to `1.2` for optimal security.

<Admonition type="note">
  Verify connectivity between your Teleport Database Service host and the Oracle RDS instance before proceeding.
</Admonition>

## Step 2/9. Create Oracle AD users

<Admonition type="note">
  You can skip this step if you already have Active Directory logins in your
  Oracle database.
</Admonition>

Connect to your Oracle database as an administrative account (e.g. `admin`) and create
users that will use Active Directory authentication:

```sql
CREATE USER "ALICE@EXAMPLE.COM" IDENTIFIED EXTERNALLY;
GRANT CREATE SESSION TO "ALICE@EXAMPLE.COM";
```

## Step 3/9. Join the Linux node to Active Directory

<Admonition type="note">
  You can skip this step if you already have a Linux node joined to the same
  Active Directory domain as your Oracle instance.
</Admonition>

The Linux node where the Database Service will run must be joined to the same
Active Directory domain as the Oracle database.

Note that in order to be able to join, the Linux node must be able to resolve
your Active Directory fully-qualified domain name. For example, for AWS-managed
AD, use nameservers provided under "Networking details" on the directory's
overview page.

Install necessary packages:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Ubuntu">
    ```code
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get -y install sssd realmd krb5-user samba-common packagekit adcli
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="RHEL / CentOS 7">
    ```code
    $ sudo yum -y update
    $ sudo yum -y install sssd realmd krb5-workstation samba-common-tools
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Edit `/etc/krb5.conf` to disable reverse DNS resolution and set the default
realm. Make sure that the `[realms]` section contains your domain definition
and has `admin_server` and `kdc` fields set pointing to the domain controllers:

```ini
[libdefaults]
default_realm = EXAMPLE.COM
rdns = false

[realms]
  EXAMPLE.COM = {
    kdc = example.com
    admin_server = example.com
  }
```

Join the realm:

```code
$ sudo realm join -v -U admin@EXAMPLE.COM example.com
...
 * Successfully enrolled machine in realm
```

<Admonition type="warning">
  Note that the realm name in `admin@EXAMPLE.COM` **must** be capital case,
  otherwise the node might not be able to join.
</Admonition>

To confirm the node has joined the realm, use the `realm list` command:

```code
$ sudo realm list
example.com
  type: kerberos
  realm-name: EXAMPLE.COM
  domain-name: example.com
  configured: kerberos-member
  server-software: active-directory
  client-software: sssd
  ...
```

## Step 4/9. Create keytab file

Teleport requires a keytab file to obtain Kerberos service tickets from
Active Directory for authentication with SQL Server. The easiest way to generate
it is to use the `adutil` Linux CLI utility.

Install `adutil` on the Linux node you have joined to your Active Directory
domain:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Ubuntu 18.04">
    ```code
    $ curl https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc | sudo tee /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/microsoft.asc
    $ curl https://packages.microsoft.com/config/ubuntu/18.04/prod.list | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/msprod.list
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo ACCEPT_EULA=Y apt-get install -y adutil
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Ubuntu 20.04">
    ```code
    $ curl https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc | sudo tee /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/microsoft.asc
    $ curl https://packages.microsoft.com/config/ubuntu/20.04/prod.list | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/msprod.list
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo ACCEPT_EULA=Y apt-get install -y adutil
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Ubuntu 22.04">
    ```code
    $ curl https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc | sudo tee /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/microsoft.asc
    $ curl https://packages.microsoft.com/config/ubuntu/22.04/prod.list | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/msprod.list
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo ACCEPT_EULA=Y apt-get install -y adutil
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="RHEL 8">
    ```code
    $ sudo curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/msprod.repo https://packages.microsoft.com/config/rhel/8/prod.repo
    $ sudo ACCEPT_EULA=Y yum install -y adutil
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="RHEL 9">
    ```code
    $ sudo curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/msprod.repo https://packages.microsoft.com/config/rhel/9/prod.repo
    $ sudo ACCEPT_EULA=Y yum install -y adutil
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Other">
  If `adutil` is not available for your distribution, you can use `ktutil` instead. It should be available as a standard Kerberos utility.
  ```code
  $ ktutil
ktutil: addent -password -p alice@EXAMPLE.COM -k 1 -e aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96
Password for alice@EXAMPLE.COM: [enter password here]
ktutil: wkt teleport.keytab
ktutil: quit
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Log in to Active Directory using the `kinit` command:

```code
$ kinit admin@EXAMPLE.COM
```

Use the `adutil keytab create` command to generate keytab entries for each
Active Directory user that will be connecting to the SQL Server database:

```code
$ adutil keytab create teleport.keytab alice
$ adutil keytab create teleport.keytab bob
```

You will be prompted to enter each user's password. All keytab entries will
be merged into the same `teleport.keytab` file.

<Admonition type="note" title="Assign Service Principal Names">
  For the `adutil keytab create` command to work, each user account must be
  assigned a Service Principal Name, otherwise the command will not be able
  to determine its `kvno` (key version number).

  To check if the user has any SPNs assigned, run the following command on the
  Windows machine joined to your Active Directory domain:

  ```code
  $ setspn -L alice
  ```

  To assign an SPN to a user account, use the following command:

  ```code
  $ setspn -s user/alice alice
  ```
</Admonition>

You can verify entries in the keytab file using `klist` command:

```code
$ klist -ke teleport.keytab
Keytab name: FILE:teleport.keytab
KVNO Principal
---- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
   5 alice@EXAMPLE.COM (aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96)
   2 bob@EXAMPLE.COM (aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96)
```

<Admonition type="warning">
  You must update the keytab file after updating a user's password to avoid
  authentication failures.
</Admonition>

## Step 5/9. Set up the Teleport Database Service

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl-token.mdx serviceName="Database" tokenType="db" tokenFile="/tmp/token"!)

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

<Admonition type="note">
  Teleport Database Service must run on a Linux server joined to the same
  Active Directory domain as the Oracle instance.
</Admonition>

Configure the Teleport Database Service. Make sure to update `--proxy` to
point to your Teleport Proxy Service address and `--uri` to the Oracle
endpoint.

```code
$ sudo teleport db configure create \
    -o file \
    --token=/tmp/token \
    --proxy=teleport.example.com:443 \
    --name=oracle \
    --protocol=oracle \
    --uri=oracle-instance.aabbccddeegg.eu-central-1.rds.amazonaws.com:2484 \
    --ad-keytab-file=/etc/teleport/teleport.keytab \
    --ad-domain=EXAMPLE.COM \
    --labels=env=dev
```

Provide Active Directory parameters:

| Flag | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| `--ad-keytab-file` | Path to Kerberos keytab file generated above. |
| `--ad-domain` | Active Directory domain (Kerberos realm) that Oracle is joined. |

## Step 6/9. Start the Database Service

(!docs/pages/includes/start-teleport.mdx service="the Teleport Database Service"!)

## Step 7/9. Create a Teleport users

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/create-user.mdx!)

## Step 8/9. (Optional) Configure Teleport to pull audit logs from Oracle Audit Trail

Teleport can pull audit logs from Oracle Audit Trail.
In order to enable this feature, you will need to configure Oracle Audit Trail and create a dedicated Teleport
user that will be used to fetch audit events from Oracle Audit Trail.

Create an internal Oracle `TELEPORT@EXAMPLE.COM` user that will fetch
audit events from Oracle Audit Trail:

```sql
CREATE USER "TELEPORT@EXAMPLE.COM" IDENTIFIED EXTERNALLY;
GRANT CREATE SESSION TO "TELEPORT@EXAMPLE.COM";
GRANT SELECT ON SYS.DBA_AUDIT_TRAIL TO "TELEPORT@EXAMPLE.COM";
GRANT SELECT ON SYS.V_$SESSION TO "TELEPORT@EXAMPLE.COM";
```

Create the corresponding `TELEPORT@EXAMPLE.COM` user in AD.

Enable standard auditing by modifying the RDS Oracle parameter group `audit_trail` to contain [`db,extended`](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/database/part-1-security-auditing-in-amazon-rds-for-oracle/#:~:text=Standard%20auditing%20with%20Amazon%20RDS%20for%20Oracle).

Reboot your Oracle instance to propagate audit trail changes.

Enable Oracle auditing for the `alice` user:
```sql
AUDIT ALL STATEMENTS by "ALICE@EXAMPLE.COM" BY access;
```

You must enable auditing for each Teleport user that will be used to connect to Oracle.
Additionally you can create a different audit policy for each user.

Edit the Database Service configuration to specify the audit user you created earlier.

```diff
db_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  databases:
  - name: "oracle"
    protocol: "oracle"
    uri: "oracle-instance.aabbccddeegg.eu-central-1.rds.amazonaws.com:2484"
    ad:
      keytab_file: "/etc/teleport/teleport.keytab"
      domain: "EXAMPLE.COM"
      krb5_file: "/etc/krb5.conf"
+   oracle:
+     audit_user: "teleport"
```

Teleport doesn't clean up audit trail events from Oracle Audit Trail.
Make sure to configure an Oracle Audit Trail cleanup policy to avoid running out of disk space.


## Step 9/9. Connect

Log in to your Teleport cluster. Your Oracle database should appear in the
list of available databases:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=alice
$ tsh db ls
# Name      Description         Labels
# --------- ------------------- -------
# oracle                     env=dev
```

Connect to the database:

```code
$ tsh db connect --db-user=alice --db-name ORCL oracle
```

To log out of the database and remove credentials:

```code
# Remove credentials for a particular database instance.
$ tsh db logout oracle
# Remove credentials for all database instances.
$ tsh db logout
```

## Next steps

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/guides-next-steps.mdx!)

## Troubleshooting

### Teleport can reach RDS Oracle instance, but TLS negotiation fails.

Ensure that `SQLNET.SSL_VERSION` parameter enables `TLS 1.2` version. TLS 1.0 is rejected by Teleport due to known weaknesses. See [AWS RDS Oracle SSL Setup documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Appendix.Oracle.Options.SSL.html) for more information.

## Further reading

- [AWS RDS Oracle Kerberos Setup](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/oracle-kerberos-setting-up.html).
- [AWS RDS Oracle SSL Setup](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Appendix.Oracle.Options.SSL.html).
- [AWS RDS Oracle auditing](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/database/part-1-security-auditing-in-amazon-rds-for-oracle/).
- [Manually join a Linux instance](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/directoryservice/latest/admin-guide/join_linux_instance.html) in the AWS documentation.
- [Introduction to `adutil`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/linux/sql-server-linux-ad-auth-adutil-introduction) in the Microsoft documentation.

Commit message:

Address part of review comments

docs/pages/enroll-resources/database-access/enroll-aws-databases/rds-oracle.mdx, after:

---
title: Database Access with AWS RDS Oracle with Kerberos Authentication
description: How to configure Teleport Database Access with AWS RDS Oracle with Kerberos authentication.
---

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/db-introduction.mdx dbType="Amazon RDS for Oracle" dbConfigure="with Kerberos authentication"!)

## How it works

The Teleport Database Service joins the same Active Directory domain as the Oracle
database and uses the Kerberos protocol to authenticate with Oracle.
When a user connects to Oracle via Teleport, the Database Service obtains a
service ticket from Active Directory, then uses a long-term key for the database
user to decrypt the ticket and connect to Oracle. At that point, the
Database Service forwards user traffic to the database.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- An Amazon RDS for Oracle database instance.
- An AWS Directory Service Managed Microsoft AD.
- A Linux node joined to the same Active Directory domain as the database. This
  guide will walk you through the joining steps if you don't have one.
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/9. Prepare the Oracle RDS Instance

Before configuring Teleport, ensure your Oracle RDS instance has Kerberos authentication and TLS properly configured:

1. Follow the [AWS RDS Oracle Kerberos Setup guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/oracle-kerberos-setting-up.html) to enable Kerberos authentication on your instance.

2. Enable TLS on your Oracle RDS instance by following the [AWS RDS Oracle SSL Setup documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Appendix.Oracle.Options.SSL.html). Ensure `SQLNET.SSL_VERSION` is set to `1.2` for optimal security. Make note of the SSL port choice; in the rest of the guide we will assume it is 2484.

<Admonition type="note">
  Verify connectivity between your Teleport Database Service host and the Oracle RDS instance before proceeding.
</Admonition>

## Step 2/9. Create Oracle AD users

<Admonition type="note">
  You can skip this step if you already have Active Directory logins in your
  Oracle database.
</Admonition>

Connect to your Oracle database as an administrative account (e.g. `admin`) and create
users that will use Active Directory authentication:

```sql
CREATE USER "ALICE@EXAMPLE.COM" IDENTIFIED EXTERNALLY;
GRANT CREATE SESSION TO "ALICE@EXAMPLE.COM";
```

## Step 3/9. Join the Linux node to Active Directory

<Admonition type="note">
  You can skip this step if you already have a Linux node joined to the same
  Active Directory domain as your Oracle instance.
</Admonition>

The Linux node where the Database Service will run must be joined to the same
Active Directory domain as the Oracle database.

Note that in order to be able to join, the Linux node must be able to resolve
your Active Directory fully-qualified domain name. For example, for AWS-managed
AD, use nameservers provided under "Networking details" on the directory's
overview page.

Install necessary packages:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Ubuntu">
    ```code
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get -y install sssd realmd krb5-user samba-common packagekit adcli
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="RHEL / CentOS 7">
    ```code
    $ sudo yum -y update
    $ sudo yum -y install sssd realmd krb5-workstation samba-common-tools
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Edit `/etc/krb5.conf` to disable reverse DNS resolution and set the default
realm. Make sure that the `[realms]` section contains your domain definition
and has `admin_server` and `kdc` fields set pointing to the domain controllers:

```ini
[libdefaults]
default_realm = EXAMPLE.COM
rdns = false

[realms]
  EXAMPLE.COM = {
    kdc = example.com
    admin_server = example.com
  }
```

Join the realm:

```code
$ sudo realm join -v -U admin@EXAMPLE.COM example.com
...
 * Successfully enrolled machine in realm
```

<Admonition type="warning">
  Note that the realm name in `admin@EXAMPLE.COM` **must** be capital case,
  otherwise the node might not be able to join.
</Admonition>

To confirm the node has joined the realm, use the `realm list` command:

```code
$ sudo realm list
example.com
  type: kerberos
  realm-name: EXAMPLE.COM
  domain-name: example.com
  configured: kerberos-member
  server-software: active-directory
  client-software: sssd
  ...
```

## Step 4/9. Create keytab file

Teleport requires a keytab file to obtain Kerberos service tickets from
Active Directory for authentication with SQL Server. The easiest way to generate
it is to use the `adutil` Linux CLI utility.

Install `adutil` on the Linux node you have joined to your Active Directory
domain:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Ubuntu 18.04">
    ```code
    $ curl https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc | sudo tee /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/microsoft.asc
    $ curl https://packages.microsoft.com/config/ubuntu/18.04/prod.list | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/msprod.list
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo ACCEPT_EULA=Y apt-get install -y adutil
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Ubuntu 20.04">
    ```code
    $ curl https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc | sudo tee /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/microsoft.asc
    $ curl https://packages.microsoft.com/config/ubuntu/20.04/prod.list | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/msprod.list
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo ACCEPT_EULA=Y apt-get install -y adutil
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Ubuntu 22.04">
    ```code
    $ curl https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc | sudo tee /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/microsoft.asc
    $ curl https://packages.microsoft.com/config/ubuntu/22.04/prod.list | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/msprod.list
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo ACCEPT_EULA=Y apt-get install -y adutil
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="RHEL 8">
    ```code
    $ sudo curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/msprod.repo https://packages.microsoft.com/config/rhel/8/prod.repo
    $ sudo ACCEPT_EULA=Y yum install -y adutil
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="RHEL 9">
    ```code
    $ sudo curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/msprod.repo https://packages.microsoft.com/config/rhel/9/prod.repo
    $ sudo ACCEPT_EULA=Y yum install -y adutil
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Other">
  If `adutil` is not available for your distribution, you can use `ktutil` instead. It should be available as a standard Kerberos utility.
  ```code
  $ ktutil
ktutil: addent -password -p alice@EXAMPLE.COM -k 1 -e aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96
Password for alice@EXAMPLE.COM: [enter password here]
ktutil: wkt teleport.keytab
ktutil: quit
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Log in to Active Directory using the `kinit` command:

```code
$ kinit admin@EXAMPLE.COM
```

Use the `adutil keytab create` command to generate keytab entries for each
Active Directory user that will be connecting to the SQL Server database:

```code
$ adutil keytab create teleport.keytab alice
$ adutil keytab create teleport.keytab bob
```

You will be prompted to enter each user's password. All keytab entries will
be merged into the same `teleport.keytab` file.

<Admonition type="note" title="Assign Service Principal Names">
  For the `adutil keytab create` command to work, each user account must be
  assigned a Service Principal Name, otherwise the command will not be able
  to determine its `kvno` (key version number).

  To check if the user has any SPNs assigned, go to the user's page in AWS Console and locate the "Account settings - optional" section.

  ![AWS AD Set SPN](../../../../img/database-access/guides/aws_ad_set_spn.png)

  Alternatively, run the following command on the
  Windows machine joined to your Active Directory domain:

  ```code
  $ setspn -L alice
  ```

  To assign an SPN to a user account, use the following command:

  ```code
  $ setspn -s user/alice alice
  ```
</Admonition>

You can verify entries in the keytab file using `klist` command:

```code
$ klist -ke teleport.keytab
Keytab name: FILE:teleport.keytab
KVNO Principal
---- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
   5 alice@EXAMPLE.COM (aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96)
   2 bob@EXAMPLE.COM (aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96)
```

<Admonition type="warning">
  You must update the keytab file after updating a user's password to avoid
  authentication failures.
</Admonition>

## Step 5/9. Set up the Teleport Database Service

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl-token.mdx serviceName="Database" tokenType="db" tokenFile="/tmp/token"!)

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

<Admonition type="note">
  Teleport Database Service must run on a Linux server joined to the same
  Active Directory domain as the Oracle instance.
</Admonition>

Configure the Teleport Database Service. Make sure to update `--proxy` to
point to your Teleport Proxy Service address and `--uri` to the Oracle
endpoint. Note the specified port must be one configured as part of SSL configuration, which defaults to 2484.

```code
$ sudo teleport db configure create \
    -o file \
    --token=/tmp/token \
    --proxy=teleport.example.com:443 \
    --name=oracle \
    --protocol=oracle \
    --uri=oracle-instance.aabbccddeegg.eu-central-1.rds.amazonaws.com:2484 \
    --ad-keytab-file=/etc/teleport/teleport.keytab \
    --ad-domain=EXAMPLE.COM \
    --labels=env=dev
```

Provide Active Directory parameters:

| Flag | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| `--ad-keytab-file` | Path to Kerberos keytab file generated above. |
| `--ad-domain` | Active Directory domain (Kerberos realm) that Oracle is joined. |

## Step 6/9. Start the Database Service

(!docs/pages/includes/start-teleport.mdx service="the Teleport Database Service"!)

## Step 7/9. Create a Teleport users

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/create-user.mdx!)

## Step 8/9. (Optional) Configure Teleport to pull audit logs from Oracle Audit Trail

Teleport can pull audit logs from Oracle Audit Trail.
In order to enable this feature, you will need to configure Oracle Audit Trail and create a dedicated Teleport
user that will be used to fetch audit events from Oracle Audit Trail.

Create an internal Oracle `TELEPORT@EXAMPLE.COM` user that will fetch
audit events from Oracle Audit Trail:

```sql
CREATE USER "TELEPORT@EXAMPLE.COM" IDENTIFIED EXTERNALLY;
GRANT CREATE SESSION TO "TELEPORT@EXAMPLE.COM";
GRANT SELECT ON SYS.DBA_AUDIT_TRAIL TO "TELEPORT@EXAMPLE.COM";
GRANT SELECT ON SYS.V_$SESSION TO "TELEPORT@EXAMPLE.COM";
```

Create the corresponding `TELEPORT@EXAMPLE.COM` user in AD.

Enable standard auditing by modifying the RDS Oracle parameter group `audit_trail` to contain [`db,extended`](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/database/part-1-security-auditing-in-amazon-rds-for-oracle/#:~:text=Standard%20auditing%20with%20Amazon%20RDS%20for%20Oracle).

Reboot your Oracle instance to propagate audit trail changes.

Enable Oracle auditing for the `alice` user:
```sql
AUDIT ALL STATEMENTS by "ALICE@EXAMPLE.COM" BY access;
```

You must enable auditing for each Teleport user that will be used to connect to Oracle.
Additionally you can create a different audit policy for each user.

Edit the Database Service configuration to specify the audit user you created earlier.

```diff
db_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  databases:
  - name: "oracle"
    protocol: "oracle"
    uri: "oracle-instance.aabbccddeegg.eu-central-1.rds.amazonaws.com:2484"
    ad:
      keytab_file: "/etc/teleport/teleport.keytab"
      domain: "EXAMPLE.COM"
      krb5_file: "/etc/krb5.conf"
+   oracle:
+     audit_user: "teleport"
```

Teleport doesn't clean up audit trail events from Oracle Audit Trail.
Make sure to configure an Oracle Audit Trail cleanup policy to avoid running out of disk space.


## Step 9/9. Connect

Log in to your Teleport cluster. Your Oracle database should appear in the
list of available databases:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=alice
$ tsh db ls
# Name      Description         Labels
# --------- ------------------- -------
# oracle                     env=dev
```

Connect to the database:

```code
$ tsh db connect --db-user=alice --db-name ORCL oracle
```

To log out of the database and remove credentials:

```code
# Remove credentials for a particular database instance.
$ tsh db logout oracle
# Remove credentials for all database instances.
$ tsh db logout
```

## Next steps

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/guides-next-steps.mdx!)

## Troubleshooting

### Teleport can reach RDS Oracle instance, but TLS negotiation fails.

Ensure that `SQLNET.SSL_VERSION` parameter enables `TLS 1.2` version. TLS 1.0 is rejected by Teleport due to known weaknesses. See [AWS RDS Oracle SSL Setup documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Appendix.Oracle.Options.SSL.html) for more information.

## Further reading

- [AWS RDS Oracle Kerberos Setup](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/oracle-kerberos-setting-up.html).
- [AWS RDS Oracle SSL Setup](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Appendix.Oracle.Options.SSL.html).
- [AWS RDS Oracle auditing](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/database/part-1-security-auditing-in-amazon-rds-for-oracle/).
- [Manually join a Linux instance](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/directoryservice/latest/admin-guide/join_linux_instance.html) in the AWS documentation.
- [Introduction to `adutil`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/linux/sql-server-linux-ad-auth-adutil-introduction) in the Microsoft documentation.
