docs/pages/admin-guides/access-controls/login-rules/guide.mdx, before:

---
title: Set Up Login Rules 
description: Set up Login Rules to transform user traits
---

This guide will walk you through the process of writing, testing, and adding the
first Login Rule to your Teleport cluster.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

Before you get started you’ll need a running Teleport Enterprise or Cloud
cluster on version `11.3.1` or greater.

Login Rules only operate on SSO logins, so make sure you have
configured an OIDC, SAML, or GitHub connector before you begin.
Check the [Single Sign-On](../sso/sso.mdx) docs to learn how to set this up.

## Step 1/5. Configure RBAC

First, ensure you are logged into Teleport as a user that has permissions
to read and modify `login_rule` resources. The preset `editor` role
has access to this already, but in case you are using a more customized configuration,
create a role called `loginrule-manager.yaml` with the following contents:

```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: loginrule-manager
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
      - resources: [login_rule]
        verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
version: v7
```

Create the role with `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create loginrule-manager.yaml
role 'loginrule-manager' has been created
```

(!docs/pages/includes/create-role-using-web.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx role="loginrule-manager" !)

## Step 2/5. Draft your Login Rule resource

The following example will give all users a new `logins` trait set to the value
of their current `username` trait converted to lowercase.
Copy this example rule to a file called `my_rule.yaml` to continue with the
guide.

```
# my_rule.yaml
kind: login_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  # Each Login Rule must have a unique name within the cluster.
  name: my_rule

  # expires is optional and usually should not be set for deployed login
  # rules, but it can be useful to set an expiry a short time in the future
  # while testing new Login Rules to prevent potentially locking yourself out of
  # your Teleport cluster.
  # expires: "2023-01-31T00:00:00-00:00"
spec:
  # priority orders the evaluation of Login Rules if multiple are present in the
  # cluster, lower priorities are evaluated first.
  priority: 0

  # traits_expression is a predicate expression which will be evaluated to
  # determine the final traits for each SSO user during login.
  #
  # This example expression sets the "logins" trait to the incoming "username"
  # trait converted to lowercase.
  traits_expression: 'external.put("logins", strings.lower(external["username"]))'
```

Each Login Rule resource must have either a `traits_map` or `traits_expression`
field.
In this guide we will use an example `traits_expression`.

The `traits_expression` is a form of script which will be evaluated by your
Teleport cluster at runtime to determine the traits for each SSO user who logs
in.
The expression can access the incoming traits for the user via the `external`
variable.
The `external` variable is a dictionary which maps trait keys to sets of values
for that trait.

## Step 3/5. Test the Login Rule

The `tctl login_rule test` command can be used to experiment with new Login
Rules to check their syntax and see exactly how they will operate on example
incoming traits.

Fetch your user's current traits and store them in `input.json`, then test your
new Login Rule with that input.

```code
$ tctl get --format json users/<Var name="username"/> | jq 'first.spec.traits' > input.json
$ tctl login_rule test --resource-file my_rule.yaml input.json
access:
- staging
groups:
- dbs
- devs
logins:
- alice
```

This script will catch any syntax errors in your expressions.
Make sure that all expected traits are present in the output.

## Step 4/5. Create the Login Rule

Use the following command to create the Login Rule in your cluster:

```code
$ tctl create my_rule.yaml
```

## Step 5/5. Try it out

As a final step, log out of your cluster, then log in again and make sure your user received the
expected traits and roles.
You can check the traits and roles with the following command:

```code
$ tctl get --format json users/<Var name="username"/> | jq '{traits: first.spec.traits, roles: first.spec.roles}'
{
  "traits": {
	"access": [
	  "staging"
    ],
    "groups": [
      "dbs",
      "devs"
    ],
    "logins": [
      "alice"
    ]
  },
  "roles": [
    "access",
    "editor",
    "auditor"
  ]
}
```

## Troubleshooting

The [`tctl sso test`](../../../reference/cli/tctl.mdx) command can be used to
debug SSO logins and see exactly which traits are being sent by your SSO
provider and how they are being mapped by your Login Rules.

`tctl sso test` expects a connector spec.
Run the following command to debug with a connector currently installed in your
cluster.

```code
$ tctl get connector/<Var name="SSO connector name"/> --with-secrets | tctl sso test
```

## Next steps

To learn more about the Login Rule expression syntax, check out the
[Login Rule Reference](../../../reference/access-controls/login-rules.mdx) page.

Learn about the `tctl login_rule test` command by running the help command or
checking the [reference page](../../../reference/cli/tctl.mdx).
```code
$ tctl help login_rule test
```

The following `tctl` resource commands are helpful for viewing and modifying the
login rules currently installed in your cluster.

Command | Description
------- | -----------
`tctl get login_rules` | Show all Login Rules installed in your cluster.
`tctl get login_rule/<rule_name>` | Get a specific installed Login Rule.
`tctl create login_rule.yaml` | Install a new Login Rule.
`tctl create -f login_rule.yaml` | Overwrite an existing Login Rule.
`tctl rm login_rule/<rule_name>` | Delete a Login Rule.

## Example Login Rules

### Set a trait to a static list of values defined per group

```yaml
kind: login_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  priority: 0
  traits_expression: |
    external.put("allow-env",
      choose(
        option(external.group.contains("dev"), set("dev", "staging")),
        option(external.group.contains("qa"), set("qa", "staging")),
        option(external.group.contains("admin"), set("dev", "qa", "staging", "prod")),
        option(true, set()),
      ))
```

### Use only specific traits provided by the OIDC/SAML provider

To only keep the `groups` and `email` traits, with their original values:

```yaml
kind: login_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  priority: 0
  traits_map:
    groups:
      - external.groups
    email:
      - external.email
```

### Remove a specific trait

To remove a specific trait and keep the rest:

```yaml
kind: login_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  priority: 0
  traits_expression: |
    external.remove("big-trait")
```

### Extend a specific trait with extra values

```yaml
kind: login_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  priority: 0
  traits_expression: |
    external.add_values("logins", "ubuntu", "ec2-user")
```

### Use the output of one Login Rule in another rule

```yaml
kind: login_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  name: set_groups
spec:
  priority: 0
  traits_expression: |
    external.put("groups",
      ifelse(external.groups.contains("admins"),
        external["groups"].add("superusers"),
        external["groups"]))
---
kind: login_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  name: set_logins
spec:
  priority: 1
  traits_expression: |
    ifelse(external.groups.contains("superusers"),
      external.add_values("logins", "root"),
      external)
```

Commit message:

Fix 45 Vale warnings (#52483)
- Fix Var components that only have a single instance on a page
- Replace "Teleport agent" with "Teleport Agent"

docs/pages/admin-guides/access-controls/login-rules/guide.mdx, after:

---
title: Set Up Login Rules 
description: Set up Login Rules to transform user traits
---

This guide will walk you through the process of writing, testing, and adding the
first Login Rule to your Teleport cluster.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

Before you get started you’ll need a running Teleport Enterprise or Cloud
cluster on version `11.3.1` or greater.

Login Rules only operate on SSO logins, so make sure you have
configured an OIDC, SAML, or GitHub connector before you begin.
Check the [Single Sign-On](../sso/sso.mdx) docs to learn how to set this up.

## Step 1/5. Configure RBAC

First, ensure you are logged into Teleport as a user that has permissions
to read and modify `login_rule` resources. The preset `editor` role
has access to this already, but in case you are using a more customized configuration,
create a role called `loginrule-manager.yaml` with the following contents:

```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: loginrule-manager
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
      - resources: [login_rule]
        verbs: [list, create, read, update, delete]
version: v7
```

Create the role with `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create loginrule-manager.yaml
role 'loginrule-manager' has been created
```

(!docs/pages/includes/create-role-using-web.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx role="loginrule-manager" !)

## Step 2/5. Draft your Login Rule resource

The following example will give all users a new `logins` trait set to the value
of their current `username` trait converted to lowercase.
Copy this example rule to a file called `my_rule.yaml` to continue with the
guide.

```
# my_rule.yaml
kind: login_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  # Each Login Rule must have a unique name within the cluster.
  name: my_rule

  # expires is optional and usually should not be set for deployed login
  # rules, but it can be useful to set an expiry a short time in the future
  # while testing new Login Rules to prevent potentially locking yourself out of
  # your Teleport cluster.
  # expires: "2023-01-31T00:00:00-00:00"
spec:
  # priority orders the evaluation of Login Rules if multiple are present in the
  # cluster, lower priorities are evaluated first.
  priority: 0

  # traits_expression is a predicate expression which will be evaluated to
  # determine the final traits for each SSO user during login.
  #
  # This example expression sets the "logins" trait to the incoming "username"
  # trait converted to lowercase.
  traits_expression: 'external.put("logins", strings.lower(external["username"]))'
```

Each Login Rule resource must have either a `traits_map` or `traits_expression`
field.
In this guide we will use an example `traits_expression`.

The `traits_expression` is a form of script which will be evaluated by your
Teleport cluster at runtime to determine the traits for each SSO user who logs
in.
The expression can access the incoming traits for the user via the `external`
variable.
The `external` variable is a dictionary which maps trait keys to sets of values
for that trait.

## Step 3/5. Test the Login Rule

The `tctl login_rule test` command can be used to experiment with new Login
Rules to check their syntax and see exactly how they will operate on example
incoming traits.

Fetch your user's current traits and store them in `input.json`, then test your
new Login Rule with that input.

```code
$ tctl get --format json users/<Var name="username"/> | jq 'first.spec.traits' > input.json
$ tctl login_rule test --resource-file my_rule.yaml input.json
access:
- staging
groups:
- dbs
- devs
logins:
- alice
```

This script will catch any syntax errors in your expressions.
Make sure that all expected traits are present in the output.

## Step 4/5. Create the Login Rule

Use the following command to create the Login Rule in your cluster:

```code
$ tctl create my_rule.yaml
```

## Step 5/5. Try it out

As a final step, log out of your cluster, then log in again and make sure your user received the
expected traits and roles.
You can check the traits and roles with the following command:

```code
$ tctl get --format json users/<Var name="username"/> | jq '{traits: first.spec.traits, roles: first.spec.roles}'
{
  "traits": {
	"access": [
	  "staging"
    ],
    "groups": [
      "dbs",
      "devs"
    ],
    "logins": [
      "alice"
    ]
  },
  "roles": [
    "access",
    "editor",
    "auditor"
  ]
}
```

## Troubleshooting

The [`tctl sso test`](../../../reference/cli/tctl.mdx) command can be used to
debug SSO logins and see exactly which traits are being sent by your SSO
provider and how they are being mapped by your Login Rules.

`tctl sso test` expects a connector spec.  Run the following command to debug
with a connector currently installed in your cluster, replacing 
<Var name="SSO connector name"/> with the name of the SSO connector you registered with
Teleport: 

```code
$ tctl get connector/<Var name="SSO connector name"/> --with-secrets | tctl sso test
```

## Next steps

To learn more about the Login Rule expression syntax, check out the
[Login Rule Reference](../../../reference/access-controls/login-rules.mdx) page.

Learn about the `tctl login_rule test` command by running the help command or
checking the [reference page](../../../reference/cli/tctl.mdx).
```code
$ tctl help login_rule test
```

The following `tctl` resource commands are helpful for viewing and modifying the
login rules currently installed in your cluster.

Command | Description
------- | -----------
`tctl get login_rules` | Show all Login Rules installed in your cluster.
`tctl get login_rule/<rule_name>` | Get a specific installed Login Rule.
`tctl create login_rule.yaml` | Install a new Login Rule.
`tctl create -f login_rule.yaml` | Overwrite an existing Login Rule.
`tctl rm login_rule/<rule_name>` | Delete a Login Rule.

## Example Login Rules

### Set a trait to a static list of values defined per group

```yaml
kind: login_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  priority: 0
  traits_expression: |
    external.put("allow-env",
      choose(
        option(external.group.contains("dev"), set("dev", "staging")),
        option(external.group.contains("qa"), set("qa", "staging")),
        option(external.group.contains("admin"), set("dev", "qa", "staging", "prod")),
        option(true, set()),
      ))
```

### Use only specific traits provided by the OIDC/SAML provider

To only keep the `groups` and `email` traits, with their original values:

```yaml
kind: login_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  priority: 0
  traits_map:
    groups:
      - external.groups
    email:
      - external.email
```

### Remove a specific trait

To remove a specific trait and keep the rest:

```yaml
kind: login_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  priority: 0
  traits_expression: |
    external.remove("big-trait")
```

### Extend a specific trait with extra values

```yaml
kind: login_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  priority: 0
  traits_expression: |
    external.add_values("logins", "ubuntu", "ec2-user")
```

### Use the output of one Login Rule in another rule

```yaml
kind: login_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  name: set_groups
spec:
  priority: 0
  traits_expression: |
    external.put("groups",
      ifelse(external.groups.contains("admins"),
        external["groups"].add("superusers"),
        external["groups"]))
---
kind: login_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  name: set_logins
spec:
  priority: 1
  traits_expression: |
    ifelse(external.groups.contains("superusers"),
      external.add_values("logins", "root"),
      external)
```
