docs/pages/enroll-resources/desktop-access/troubleshooting.mdx, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting Desktop Access
description: Common issues and resolutions for Teleport's desktop access
---

Common issues and resolution steps.

## Certificate expired or not yet valid

In order for remote desktop access to work correctly, certificates issued by
Teleport must be validated by several different components. If these components
do not agree what the current time is, then you will likely encounter
certificate validation errors which prevent Teleport from working correctly.

These errors can manifest in several different ways depending on which system(s)
have an incorrect system clock.

For example, you may see that Teleport starts a remote desktop session, but that
the login screen on the remote desktop shows an error similar to:

```text
The smartcard certificate used for authentication has expired. Please contact your system administrator.
```

Alternatively, you may see an error in the Teleport Web UI before the remote desktop connection
is established:

```text
Remote error tls expired certificate
```

**Solution:** Check the system clock on all systems

In order to fix these issues, it is important for the system clocks on the
following components to be synchronized:
- the Teleport Auth Service
- the Teleport Proxy Service
- the Teleport Windows Desktop Service
- the target Windows hosts

We recommend using NTP on these systems to ensure that the system clock remains
accurate. On Linux systems running systemd, you can verify the system clock
settings with the following command:

```code
$ timedatectl
```

The following is an example of a correctly configured system:

```
               Local time: Wed 2024-09-11 13:45:17 UTC
           Universal time: Wed 2024-09-11 13:45:17 UTC
                 RTC time: Wed 2024-09-11 13:45:17
                Time zone: Etc/UTC (UTC, +0000)
System clock synchronized: yes
              NTP service: active
          RTC in local TZ: no
```

In this example, you can see that NTP service is marked active and that the
system clock is synchronized. If your output differs from the above then your
clock settings may need to be reconfigured.

## Auto-login does not work

### Smart card service not running

You connect to a Windows host from the Teleport UI, land on the Windows login
screen and nothing happens.

You can click on the username, click `Sign-in options` and click on the smart
card icon. The error message is: **"No Valid Certificates Were Found on This
Smart Card"**.

**Solution:** Enable the Smart Card Service

Usually, this means that the Smart Card service is not running on the target
host.

First, make sure that you [enable the Smart Card service in Group
Policy](./active-directory-manual.mdx#enable-smart-card-authentication).

If that doesn't help, log into the target host directly, open the "Services"
program from the "Start" menu and check that the "Smart Card" service is in the
"Running" state.

If the "Smart Card" service is not running, open PowerShell and run
`gpupdate.exe /force`. This forces a Group Policy sync and should pick up the
service changes.

### Smart card PIN not detected

Teleport uses a cryptographically secure random number generator to generate
a smart card PIN for each new desktop session. In order to prevent the smart
card certificate from being used for any purpose other than the initial login,
this PIN is never shared with the Teleport user.

Teleport provides this PIN to the desktop during the RDP connection phase.
If your group policy prevents the desktop from seeing this PIN, the user will
remain at the login screen even though the smart card was detected.

**Solution:** Ensure that group policy allows specifying credentials during
RDP connection establishment.

Expand Computer Configuration, Administrative Templates, Windows Components,
Remote Desktop Services, and Remote Desktop Session Host.

Under Remote Desktop Session Host, select **Security**.

Right-click **Always prompt for password upon connection**, select **Edit**,
select **Disabled**, then click **OK**.

Note: despite mention of passwords in the name of this policy, no passwords are
sent on the wire. This mechanism is used only to send the smart card PIN.

### Third-party smart card drivers prevent automatic login

Some third-party smart card drivers such as HID ActivID ActivClient may prevent
the automatic login process from working correctly. To check for the presence of
third-party drivers, connect to the host where automatic logon is not working
and view the contents of the
`Computer\HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Cryptography\Calais\SmartCards\Identity Device (NIST SP 800-73 [PIV])`
entry.

On a correctly configured system, you expect to see an entry pointing at a DLL
for the default Windows driver: `C:\Windows\System32\msclmd.dll`. On a system
with custom drivers installed, you will typically see this path overridden to
point to a DLL under `C:\Program Files`.

**Solution:** Disable or uninstall any third party smart card tools that may be
interfering with the logon process. Ensure that the registry entry mentioned
above points to `msclmd.dll` after completing the uninstall.

### Smart card not supported for Account

You connect to a Windows host and get the error message: **"Signing in with a smart card
isn't supported for your account."** or similar.

**Solution:** Review the Security-Kerberos Log on the Windows host for causes.

The Security-Kerberos Windows Event Log provides information on smart card-based
authentication attempts. This Event Log is not enabled by default.
Open the Windows Event Log and navigate to Event Viewer, Application and Services Logs,
Microsoft, Windows, Security-Kerberos, Operational. Enable this Event Log and attempt
to connect with Teleport Web UI to review log entries.

### Smart card certificate not trusted

You connect to a Windows host from the Teleport UI, land on the Windows login
screen and see an error message: **"The smartcard certificate used for
authentication was not trusted"** (or similar).

**Solution:** Import the Teleport CA

This means that the host does not trust the Teleport CA.

First, make sure that you [import the Teleport CA into Group
Policy](./active-directory-manual.mdx#create-the-GPO-for-the-Teleport-certificate).
Note that if you have rotated the Teleport CA since the last import, you need to
fetch the new CA using the following command, replacing <Var name="teleport.example.com" />
with the address of your Teleport cluster:

```code
$ curl.exe -fo user-ca.cer https://<Var name="teleport.example.com"/>/webapi/auth/export?type=windows
```

If that doesn't help, log into the target host directly, open PowerShell and
run `gpupdate.exe /force`. This forces a Group Policy update and should pick up
the new CA.

## New session "hangs"

### Host unreachable

You click **Connect** on a Windows host from the Teleport Web UI, and a new tab opens, but
nothing is displayed other than the top bar. After a while, an error is displayed about a
failed connection.
In most case, this error occurs when the `windows_desktop_service` can't reach the target
Windows host.

**Solution:** Modify firewall rules to allow inbound RDP traffic

First, make sure that you open the RDP port and [allow remote desktop
connections](./active-directory-manual.mdx#allow-remote-desktop-connections)
in the group policy object you have configured for Teleport connections.

If that does not help, check if the target host is online and try to `ping` it
from the Linux server that runs `windows_desktop_service`. If the host is
online but not reachable, there is some other networking barrier in the way,
specific to your infrastructure.

### Hostname does not resolve

Connections to Windows Desktops hang during connection establishment, or the
Teleport debug logs show errors of the form
`couldn't resolve winserver.example.com`.

**Solution:** Ensure Firewall Permits DNS Traffic

For desktops that are automatically discovered via LDAP, Teleport makes DNS
queries against the LDAP server in order to resolve the hostname to an IP
address.

Ensure that your firewalls allow inbound DNS traffic on port `53` from the
instance(s) running Teleport's Windows Desktop Service to the LDAP server
(Active Directory Domain Controller).

## Teleport fails to start

### Incorrect domain

Teleport fails to start with an error similar to:

```text
LDAP Result Code 10 "Referral": 0000202B: RefErr: DSID-0310082F, data 0, 1 access points
"\tref 1: 'xample.com'"
"\x00"
```

**Solution:** Correct Domain

This means that your domain name is likely wrong. Double-check the `domain`
field in the `ldap` section of `windows_desktop_service`.

### Domain controller unreachable

Teleport fails to start with an error similar to:

```text
LDAP Result Code 200 "Network Error": dial tcp ad.example.com:636: i/o timeout
```

**Solution:** Check LDAP Address

This means that your domain controller is down or unreachable. Double-check the
`addr` field in the `ldap` section of `windows_desktop_service`. If it's
correct, check that the domain controller is up and reachable from the server
that runs `windows_desktop_service`.

### Cannot initialize LDAP over TLS

Teleport fails to connect to LDAP on startup. You may see errors similar to:

```text
LDAP Result Code 52 "Unavailable": 00000000: LdapErr: DSID-0C090F78, comment: Error initializing SSL/TLS, data 0, v2580\x00
```

or

```text
connecting to LDAP server: unable to read LDAP response packet: read tcp 172.18.0.5:35970->;172.18.0.4:636: read: connection reset by peer
```

**Solution:** Enable LDAPS

This means you do not have an LDAP certificate installed on your LDAP servers,
or you are trying to make an insecure connection on port `389`. Teleport requires
secure LDAPS connections, which are typically on port `636`. First, confirm that
you are connecting to the correct LDAPS port. If that doesn't resolve your
issue, you can
[install Active Directory Certificate Services](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/networking/core-network-guide/cncg/server-certs/install-the-certification-authority)
(AD CS) or
[import](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-server/identity/enable-ldap-over-ssl-3rd-certification-authority)
your own third party certificate. Note that Active Directory is
[extremely picky](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-server/identity/enable-ldap-over-ssl-3rd-certification-authority#requirements-for-an-ldaps-certificate)
so take care to generate your certificates correctly.

## Desktops are not discovered via LDAP

### LDAP not yet initialized

Teleport is running, but desktops do not show up in the Web UI. The logs contain
errors similar to:

```
skipping desktop discovery: LDAP not yet initialized
```

**Solution:** Confirm Teleport certificate is installed

The Teleport Desktop Service uses a Teleport-issued certificate to authenticate
with the LDAP server. This error occurs when Teleport is unable to authenticate,
which is often due to its certificate authority not being trusted by Active
Directory.

First, verify that the Teleport CA is present in the LDAP NTAuth store. Run the
following command, modifying the DN for your domain (in this command we use a
domain of example.com)

```
$ certutil -viewstore "ldap:///CN=NTAuthCertificates,CN=Public Key Services,CN=Services,CN=Configuration,DC=example,DC=com?caCertificate"
```

You should see a popup window that shows the Teleport CA certificate. If the
Teleport certificate is not present, import it with:

```
$ certutil -dspublish -f <path-to-cert> NTAuthCA
```

Once you've verified that the Teleport certificate is present in LDAP, you
should check whether it has propagated to all desktops. From a desktop that you
would like to connect to, run the following:

```
$ certutil -viewstore -enterprise NTAuth
```

If the popup window does not show the Teleport certificate, and it was present
in LDAP, you can force the desktop to sync with the following command:

```
$ certutil -pulse
```

If you have verified that the Teleport CA certificate is properly installed and
are still seeing this error, check for any security tools or addons that may be
interfering with the mTLS connection. Tools such as CrowdStrike's LDAP inspection
or Silverfort's AD adapter are known to terminate TLS and drop the client certificate,
which prevents Teleport from authenticating.

#### Manually validate a client certificate

Another helpful troubleshooting step is to issue a client certificate using
`tctl` and attempt to validate it on the Windows side.

First, generate a client certificate with `tctl`, being sure to replace the
`--windows-user`, `--windows-sid`, and `--windows-domain` flags with values
appropriate for your environment:

```code
# NOTE: To issue Windows certificates, you must run 'tctl auth sign' locally
# on the same machine as the Teleport auth_service. Running this command remotely
# with an identity issued by 'tsh' will result in 'ERROR: access denied'
$ tctl auth sign \
    --windows-user=svc-teleport \
    --windows-sid=S-1-5-21-3788279871-1068139173-3054872986-500 \
    --windows-domain=domain.example.com \
    --format=windows \
    --out=test
```

This will generate a certificate file named `test.svc-teleport.der`.

Next, copy this certificate to one of your domain controllers and attempt to verify it:

```
$ certutil -urlfetch -verify test.svc-teleport.der
```

A successful verification should end with output similar to the following:

```
------------------------------------
Verified Application Policies:
    1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.2 Client Authentication
    1.3.6.1.4.1.311.20.2.2 Smart Card Logon
Cert is an End Entity certificate
Leaf certificate revocation check passed
CertUtil: -verify command completed successfully.
```

If you do not see similar results, scan the output for errors which may indicate
why the certificate cannot be verified.

## Connection attempts fail

### RDP server only uses Standard RDP Security

Attempts to connect to a desktop fail with an error similar to

```
client advertised SSL, but server selected STANDARD_RDP_SECURITY
```

**Solution:** Enable Enhanced RDP security

Standard RDP Security is based on RC4 encryption and is the least secure way
to connect to a Windows host over RDP. Teleport's RDP client requires enhanced
RDP security with TLS.

Enhanced RDP Security is typically enabled by default, but your environment may
be configured to require the legacy security methods.

This configuration is available via group policy at:

```text
Computer Configuration > Administrative Templates > Windows Components > Remote Desktop Services > Remote Desktop Session Host > Security
```

Look for the "Require use of a specific security layer for remote (RDP)
connections" setting. The setting should be set to **Negotiate** or **SSL**, not
**RDP**.

### RDP connection failed

You click **Connect** on a Windows host from the Teleport Web UI, a new tab opens but
nothing is displayed other than the top bar. You see an error that refers to a
failed RDP connection. You may also see errors similar to:

```text
Rdp(Io(Os { code: 54, kind: ConnectionReset, message: "Connection reset by peer" }))
```

**Solution:** Configure a certificate for RDP connections

This means that the desktop does not support secure cipher suites for TLS
connections.

Make sure that you [configure a certificate for RDP
connections](./active-directory-manual.mdx#step-47-configure-a-certificate-for-rdp-connections).

### Enhanced RDP security with CredSSP required

Attempts to connect to a desktop fail, and the logs show an error similar to:

```
Error during negotiation step: the server requires that the client support enhanced RDP security with CredSSP
```

**Solution:** Disable Network Level Authentication (NLA)

This means that the RDP server is requiring NLA.
Teleport currently requires that NLA is disabled in order to perform its
certificate-based passwordless login.

To disable NLA, follow the instructions to [allow remote
desktop connections](./active-directory-manual.mdx#allow-remote-desktop-connections)
in the group policy object you have configured for Teleport connections.
If you are still encountering this error after disabling NLA in Active Directory,
run the following command from the Windows Command prompt as an administrator
to force the policy update:

```code
$ gpupdate.exe /force
```

## Directory Sharing

### Failed to share directory

Attempts to share a directory fail and a warning is presented that says:

```
Failed to share directory, drive redirection may be disabled on the RDP server.
```

**Solution:** Ensure that device redirection is enabled.

Teleport's directory sharing feature leverages RDP device redirection.
If device redirection is not enabled or allowed by the RDP server then the operation
will fail.

Device redirection is typically enabled by default, but may be disabled in group policy.
The relevant settings are located under:

```text
Computer configuration > Administrative Templates > Windows Components > Remote Desktop Services > Remote Desktop Session Host > Device and Resource Redirection
```

Make sure that the option for *Do not allow drive redirection* is unset or disabled.

Commit message:

docs: add troubleshoting for missing service account SID (#52621) (#52762)
The February 2025 security updates that just came out enable full
enforcement mode, which means the SID configuration field is now
a strict requirement.

docs/pages/enroll-resources/desktop-access/troubleshooting.mdx, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting Desktop Access
description: Common issues and resolutions for Teleport's desktop access
---

Common issues and resolution steps.

## Certificate expired or not yet valid

In order for remote desktop access to work correctly, certificates issued by
Teleport must be validated by several different components. If these components
do not agree what the current time is, then you will likely encounter
certificate validation errors which prevent Teleport from working correctly.

These errors can manifest in several different ways depending on which system(s)
have an incorrect system clock.

For example, you may see that Teleport starts a remote desktop session, but that
the login screen on the remote desktop shows an error similar to:

```text
The smartcard certificate used for authentication has expired. Please contact your system administrator.
```

Alternatively, you may see an error in the Teleport Web UI before the remote desktop connection
is established:

```text
Remote error tls expired certificate
```

**Solution:** Check the system clock on all systems

In order to fix these issues, it is important for the system clocks on the
following components to be synchronized:
- the Teleport Auth Service
- the Teleport Proxy Service
- the Teleport Windows Desktop Service
- the target Windows hosts

We recommend using NTP on these systems to ensure that the system clock remains
accurate. On Linux systems running systemd, you can verify the system clock
settings with the following command:

```code
$ timedatectl
```

The following is an example of a correctly configured system:

```
               Local time: Wed 2024-09-11 13:45:17 UTC
           Universal time: Wed 2024-09-11 13:45:17 UTC
                 RTC time: Wed 2024-09-11 13:45:17
                Time zone: Etc/UTC (UTC, +0000)
System clock synchronized: yes
              NTP service: active
          RTC in local TZ: no
```

In this example, you can see that NTP service is marked active and that the
system clock is synchronized. If your output differs from the above then your
clock settings may need to be reconfigured.

## Auto-login does not work

### Smart card service not running

You connect to a Windows host from the Teleport UI, land on the Windows login
screen and nothing happens.

You can click on the username, click `Sign-in options` and click on the smart
card icon. The error message is: **"No Valid Certificates Were Found on This
Smart Card"**.

**Solution:** Enable the Smart Card Service

Usually, this means that the Smart Card service is not running on the target
host.

First, make sure that you [enable the Smart Card service in Group
Policy](./active-directory-manual.mdx#enable-smart-card-authentication).

If that doesn't help, log into the target host directly, open the "Services"
program from the "Start" menu and check that the "Smart Card" service is in the
"Running" state.

If the "Smart Card" service is not running, open PowerShell and run
`gpupdate.exe /force`. This forces a Group Policy sync and should pick up the
service changes.

### Smart card PIN not detected

Teleport uses a cryptographically secure random number generator to generate
a smart card PIN for each new desktop session. In order to prevent the smart
card certificate from being used for any purpose other than the initial login,
this PIN is never shared with the Teleport user.

Teleport provides this PIN to the desktop during the RDP connection phase.
If your group policy prevents the desktop from seeing this PIN, the user will
remain at the login screen even though the smart card was detected.

**Solution:** Ensure that group policy allows specifying credentials during
RDP connection establishment.

Expand Computer Configuration, Administrative Templates, Windows Components,
Remote Desktop Services, and Remote Desktop Session Host.

Under Remote Desktop Session Host, select **Security**.

Right-click **Always prompt for password upon connection**, select **Edit**,
select **Disabled**, then click **OK**.

Note: despite mention of passwords in the name of this policy, no passwords are
sent on the wire. This mechanism is used only to send the smart card PIN.

### Third-party smart card drivers prevent automatic login

Some third-party smart card drivers such as HID ActivID ActivClient may prevent
the automatic login process from working correctly. To check for the presence of
third-party drivers, connect to the host where automatic logon is not working
and view the contents of the
`Computer\HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Cryptography\Calais\SmartCards\Identity Device (NIST SP 800-73 [PIV])`
entry.

On a correctly configured system, you expect to see an entry pointing at a DLL
for the default Windows driver: `C:\Windows\System32\msclmd.dll`. On a system
with custom drivers installed, you will typically see this path overridden to
point to a DLL under `C:\Program Files`.

**Solution:** Disable or uninstall any third party smart card tools that may be
interfering with the logon process. Ensure that the registry entry mentioned
above points to `msclmd.dll` after completing the uninstall.

### Smart card not supported for Account

You connect to a Windows host and get the error message: **"Signing in with a smart card
isn't supported for your account."** or similar.

**Solution:** Review the Security-Kerberos Log on the Windows host for causes.

The Security-Kerberos Windows Event Log provides information on smart card-based
authentication attempts. This Event Log is not enabled by default.
Open the Windows Event Log and navigate to Event Viewer, Application and Services Logs,
Microsoft, Windows, Security-Kerberos, Operational. Enable this Event Log and attempt
to connect with Teleport Web UI to review log entries.

### Smart card certificate not trusted

You connect to a Windows host from the Teleport UI, land on the Windows login
screen and see an error message: **"The smartcard certificate used for
authentication was not trusted"** (or similar).

**Solution:** Import the Teleport CA

This means that the host does not trust the Teleport CA.

First, make sure that you [import the Teleport CA into Group
Policy](./active-directory-manual.mdx#create-the-GPO-for-the-Teleport-certificate).
Note that if you have rotated the Teleport CA since the last import, you need to
fetch the new CA using the following command, replacing <Var name="teleport.example.com" />
with the address of your Teleport cluster:

```code
$ curl.exe -fo user-ca.cer https://<Var name="teleport.example.com"/>/webapi/auth/export?type=windows
```

If that doesn't help, log into the target host directly, open PowerShell and
run `gpupdate.exe /force`. This forces a Group Policy update and should pick up
the new CA.

## New session "hangs"

### Host unreachable

You click **Connect** on a Windows host from the Teleport Web UI, and a new tab opens, but
nothing is displayed other than the top bar. After a while, an error is displayed about a
failed connection.
In most case, this error occurs when the `windows_desktop_service` can't reach the target
Windows host.

**Solution:** Modify firewall rules to allow inbound RDP traffic

First, make sure that you open the RDP port and [allow remote desktop
connections](./active-directory-manual.mdx#allow-remote-desktop-connections)
in the group policy object you have configured for Teleport connections.

If that does not help, check if the target host is online and try to `ping` it
from the Linux server that runs `windows_desktop_service`. If the host is
online but not reachable, there is some other networking barrier in the way,
specific to your infrastructure.

### Hostname does not resolve

Connections to Windows Desktops hang during connection establishment, or the
Teleport debug logs show errors of the form
`couldn't resolve winserver.example.com`.

**Solution:** Ensure Firewall Permits DNS Traffic

For desktops that are automatically discovered via LDAP, Teleport makes DNS
queries against the LDAP server in order to resolve the hostname to an IP
address.

Ensure that your firewalls allow inbound DNS traffic on port `53` from the
instance(s) running Teleport's Windows Desktop Service to the LDAP server
(Active Directory Domain Controller).

## Teleport fails to start

### Incorrect domain

Teleport fails to start with an error similar to:

```text
LDAP Result Code 10 "Referral": 0000202B: RefErr: DSID-0310082F, data 0, 1 access points
"\tref 1: 'xample.com'"
"\x00"
```

**Solution:** Correct Domain

This means that your domain name is likely wrong. Double-check the `domain`
field in the `ldap` section of `windows_desktop_service`.

### Domain controller unreachable

Teleport fails to start with an error similar to:

```text
LDAP Result Code 200 "Network Error": dial tcp ad.example.com:636: i/o timeout
```

**Solution:** Check LDAP Address

This means that your domain controller is down or unreachable. Double-check the
`addr` field in the `ldap` section of `windows_desktop_service`. If it's
correct, check that the domain controller is up and reachable from the server
that runs `windows_desktop_service`.

### Cannot initialize LDAP over TLS

Teleport fails to connect to LDAP on startup. You may see errors similar to:

```text
LDAP Result Code 52 "Unavailable": 00000000: LdapErr: DSID-0C090F78, comment: Error initializing SSL/TLS, data 0, v2580\x00
```

or

```text
connecting to LDAP server: unable to read LDAP response packet: read tcp 172.18.0.5:35970->;172.18.0.4:636: read: connection reset by peer
```

**Solution:** Enable LDAPS

This means you do not have an LDAP certificate installed on your LDAP servers,
or you are trying to make an insecure connection on port `389`. Teleport requires
secure LDAPS connections, which are typically on port `636`. First, confirm that
you are connecting to the correct LDAPS port. If that doesn't resolve your
issue, you can
[install Active Directory Certificate Services](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/networking/core-network-guide/cncg/server-certs/install-the-certification-authority)
(AD CS) or
[import](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-server/identity/enable-ldap-over-ssl-3rd-certification-authority)
your own third party certificate. Note that Active Directory is
[extremely picky](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-server/identity/enable-ldap-over-ssl-3rd-certification-authority#requirements-for-an-ldaps-certificate)
so take care to generate your certificates correctly.

## Desktops are not discovered via LDAP

### LDAP not yet initialized

Teleport is running, but desktops do not show up in the Web UI. The logs contain
errors similar to:

```
skipping desktop discovery: LDAP not yet initialized
```

**Solution 1:** Confirm Teleport certificate is installed

The Teleport Desktop Service uses a Teleport-issued certificate to authenticate
with the LDAP server. This error occurs when Teleport is unable to authenticate,
which is often due to its certificate authority not being trusted by Active
Directory.

First, verify that the Teleport CA is present in the LDAP NTAuth store. Run the
following command, modifying the DN for your domain (in this command we use a
domain of example.com)

```
$ certutil -viewstore "ldap:///CN=NTAuthCertificates,CN=Public Key Services,CN=Services,CN=Configuration,DC=example,DC=com?caCertificate"
```

You should see a popup window that shows the Teleport CA certificate. If the
Teleport certificate is not present, import it with:

```
$ certutil -dspublish -f <path-to-cert> NTAuthCA
```

Once you've verified that the Teleport certificate is present in LDAP, you
should check whether it has propagated to all desktops. From a desktop that you
would like to connect to, run the following:

```
$ certutil -viewstore -enterprise NTAuth
```

If the popup window does not show the Teleport certificate, and it was present
in LDAP, you can force the desktop to sync with the following command:

```
$ certutil -pulse
```

**Solution 2:** Check for conflicting tools

If you have verified that the Teleport CA certificate is properly installed and
are still seeing this error, check for any security tools or addons that may be
interfering with the mTLS connection. Tools such as CrowdStrike's LDAP inspection
or Silverfort's AD adapter are known to terminate TLS and drop the client certificate,
which prevents Teleport from authenticating.

**Solution 3:** Ensure you've specified the SID for your LDAP service account

Microsoft's February 2025 security updates switch all domain controllers to
*full enforcement mode* for certificate mapping. This means that in order for
Windows to accept Teleport client certificates, the certificates need to embed
the SID of the user they are issued to.

The fix for this is to ensure that you've set the SID in the configuration file
for your `windows_desktop_service`:

```yaml
windows_desktop_service:
  enabled: yes
  ldap:
    username: 'MYDOMAIN\svc-teleport'
    sid: S-1-5-21-...
```

To look up a user's SID, use the following PowerShell command:

```
$ Get-AdUser -Identity $USERNAME | Select SID
```

#### Manually validate a client certificate

Another helpful troubleshooting step is to issue a client certificate using
`tctl` and attempt to validate it on the Windows side.

First, generate a client certificate with `tctl`, being sure to replace the
`--windows-user`, `--windows-sid`, and `--windows-domain` flags with values
appropriate for your environment:

```code
# NOTE: To issue Windows certificates, you must run 'tctl auth sign' locally
# on the same machine as the Teleport auth_service. Running this command remotely
# with an identity issued by 'tsh' will result in 'ERROR: access denied'
$ tctl auth sign \
    --windows-user=svc-teleport \
    --windows-sid=S-1-5-21-3788279871-1068139173-3054872986-500 \
    --windows-domain=domain.example.com \
    --format=windows \
    --out=test
```

This will generate a certificate file named `test.svc-teleport.der`.

Next, copy this certificate to one of your domain controllers and attempt to verify it:

```
$ certutil -urlfetch -verify test.svc-teleport.der
```

A successful verification should end with output similar to the following:

```
------------------------------------
Verified Application Policies:
    1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.2 Client Authentication
    1.3.6.1.4.1.311.20.2.2 Smart Card Logon
Cert is an End Entity certificate
Leaf certificate revocation check passed
CertUtil: -verify command completed successfully.
```

If you do not see similar results, scan the output for errors which may indicate
why the certificate cannot be verified.

## Connection attempts fail

### RDP server only uses Standard RDP Security

Attempts to connect to a desktop fail with an error similar to

```
client advertised SSL, but server selected STANDARD_RDP_SECURITY
```

**Solution:** Enable Enhanced RDP security

Standard RDP Security is based on RC4 encryption and is the least secure way
to connect to a Windows host over RDP. Teleport's RDP client requires enhanced
RDP security with TLS.

Enhanced RDP Security is typically enabled by default, but your environment may
be configured to require the legacy security methods.

This configuration is available via group policy at:

```text
Computer Configuration > Administrative Templates > Windows Components > Remote Desktop Services > Remote Desktop Session Host > Security
```

Look for the "Require use of a specific security layer for remote (RDP)
connections" setting. The setting should be set to **Negotiate** or **SSL**, not
**RDP**.

### RDP connection failed

You click **Connect** on a Windows host from the Teleport Web UI, a new tab opens but
nothing is displayed other than the top bar. You see an error that refers to a
failed RDP connection. You may also see errors similar to:

```text
Rdp(Io(Os { code: 54, kind: ConnectionReset, message: "Connection reset by peer" }))
```

**Solution:** Configure a certificate for RDP connections

This means that the desktop does not support secure cipher suites for TLS
connections.

Make sure that you [configure a certificate for RDP
connections](./active-directory-manual.mdx#step-47-configure-a-certificate-for-rdp-connections).

### Enhanced RDP security with CredSSP required

Attempts to connect to a desktop fail, and the logs show an error similar to:

```
Error during negotiation step: the server requires that the client support enhanced RDP security with CredSSP
```

**Solution:** Disable Network Level Authentication (NLA)

This means that the RDP server is requiring NLA.
Teleport currently requires that NLA is disabled in order to perform its
certificate-based passwordless login.

To disable NLA, follow the instructions to [allow remote
desktop connections](./active-directory-manual.mdx#allow-remote-desktop-connections)
in the group policy object you have configured for Teleport connections.
If you are still encountering this error after disabling NLA in Active Directory,
run the following command from the Windows Command prompt as an administrator
to force the policy update:

```code
$ gpupdate.exe /force
```

## Directory Sharing

### Failed to share directory

Attempts to share a directory fail and a warning is presented that says:

```
Failed to share directory, drive redirection may be disabled on the RDP server.
```

**Solution:** Ensure that device redirection is enabled.

Teleport's directory sharing feature leverages RDP device redirection.
If device redirection is not enabled or allowed by the RDP server then the operation
will fail.

Device redirection is typically enabled by default, but may be disabled in group policy.
The relevant settings are located under:

```text
Computer configuration > Administrative Templates > Windows Components > Remote Desktop Services > Remote Desktop Session Host > Device and Resource Redirection
```

Make sure that the option for *Do not allow drive redirection* is unset or disabled.
