docs/pages/access-controls/guides/headless.mdx, before:

---
title: Headless WebAuthn (Preview)
description: Headless WebAuthn
---

<Notice type="warning">
  Headless WebAuthn is currently in Preview mode.
</Notice>

Headless WebAuthn provides a secure way to authenticate with WebAuthn from a
machine without access to a WebAuthn device. This enables the use of WebAuthn
features which are usually not usable in WebAuthn-incompatible environments.
For example:

- Logging into Teleport with WebAuthn from a remote dev box
- Connecting to a Teleport SSH Service from a remote dev box with per-session MFA 
- Performing `tsh scp` from one Teleport SSH Service to another with per-session MFA
- Logging into Teleport on a machine without a WebAuthn-compatible browser

<Admonition type="note" title="Headless WebAuthn Support">
  Headless WebAuthn only supports the following `tsh` commands:
  
  - `tsh ls`
  - `tsh ssh`
  - `tsh scp`

  In the future, Headless WebAuthn will be extended to other `tsh` commands.
</Admonition>

## Prerequisites

- A v12.2+ Teleport cluster with WebAuthn configured.
  See the [Second Factor: WebAuthn](./webauthn.mdx) guide.
- WebAuthn hardware device, such as YubiKey.
- A Web browser with [WebAuthn support](
  https://developers.yubico.com/WebAuthn/WebAuthn_Browser_Support/).

## Step 1/3. Configuration

A v12.2+ Teleport cluster capable of WebAuthn is automatically capable of
Headless WebAuthn without any additional configuration.

<Details title="Optional: make Headless WebAuthn the default auth connector">

To make Headless WebAuthn the default authentication method for your Teleport
Cluster, add `connector_name: headless` to your cluster configuration.

Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
`tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.com
  connector_name: headless # headless by default
```

Update the configuration:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
# cluster auth preference has been updated
```
</Details>

<Details title="Alternative: disable Headless WebAuthn">

Headless WebAuthn is enabled automatically when WebAuthn is configured. If you
want to forbid Headless WebAuthn in your cluster, add `headless: false` to your
configuration.

Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
`tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.com
  headless: false # disable Headless WebAuthn
```

Update the configuration:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
# cluster auth preference has been updated
```

</Details>

## Step 2/3. Initiate Headless WebAuthn

Run a headless `tsh` command with the `--headless` flag. This will initiate
headless authentication, printing a URL and `tsh` command.

```code
$ tsh ls --headless --proxy=proxy.example.com --user=alice
# Complete headless authentication in your local web browser:
# 
# https://proxy.example.com:3080/web/headless/86172f78-af7c-5935-a7c1-ed06b94f17dc
# 
# or execute this command in your local terminal:
# 
# tsh headless approve --user=alice --proxy=proxy.example.com 86172f78-af7c-5935-a7c1-ed06b94f17dc
```

## Step 3/3. Approve Headless WebAuthn

To approve the headless authentication, click or copy+paste the URL printed by
`tsh` in your local web browser. You will be prompted to approve the log in with
WebAuthn verification. Once approved, your initial `tsh --headless <command>`
should continue as if you had logged in locally.

Unlike a standard login session, headless sessions are only available for the
lifetime of a single `tsh` request. This means that for each `tsh --headless`
command, you will need to go through the Headless WebAuthn flow:

```code 
$ tsh ls --headless --proxy=proxy.example.com --user=alice
# Complete headless authentication in your local web browser:
# 
# https://proxy.example.com:3080/web/headless/86172f78-af7c-5935-a7c1-ed06b94f17dc
# 
# or execute this command in your local terminal:
# 
# tsh headless approve --user=alice --proxy=proxy.example.com 86172f78-af7c-5935-a7c1-ed06b94f17dc
# # User approves through link
# Node Name Address        Labels                                                                             
# --------- -------------- -----------
# server01  127.0.0.1:3022 arch=x86_64
#
$ tsh ssh --headless --proxy=proxy.example.com --user=alice server01
# Complete headless authentication in your local web browser:
# 
# https://proxy.example.com:3080/web/headless/864cccd9-2425-46d9-a9f2-636387e66ebf
# 
# or execute this command in your local terminal:
# 
# tsh headless approve --user=alice --proxy=proxy.example.com 864cccd9-2425-46d9-a9f2-636387e66ebf
# # User approves through link
```

## Troubleshooting

### "WARN: Failed to lock system memory for headless login: ..."

When using Headless WebAuthn, `tsh` does not write private key and certificate data
to disk(`~/.tsh`). Instead, `tsh` holds these secrets in memory for the duration of
the request. Additionally, it will try to lock the process memory to further protect 
the secrets from being stolen by other users on a shared machine.

Below are some of the specific warning messages you may run into and how to fix them:

#### "operation not permitted" OR "cannot allocate memory"

In order to lock the process memory, your OS user must have permission to lock
the amount of memory needed. Use `ulimit -l` to check your OS user's current limit.
The exact amount of memory needed may vary from system to system, so we recommend
updating your ulimit to unlimited, with either `ulimit -l unlimited` or by adding
the line `<os_username> hard memlock unlimited` to your `/etc/security/limits.conf`.

#### "memory locking is not supported on non-linux operating systems"

The `mlockall` syscall is only supported on Linux operating systems. This means
that on other operating systems, the memory lock attempt will always fail and
output the warning. We recommend only using Headless WebAuthn on Linux machines
for the best level of security on shared machines.

#### Disable mlock

If the above solutions are not feasible in your environment, you can also disable
the memory locking requirement by setting the `--mlock` flag or `TELEPORT_MLOCK_MODE`
environment variable to `off` or `best_effort`. This is not recommended in production
environments on shared systems where a memory swap attack is possible.

Commit message:

docs: edits to the headless webauthn guide (#28733)

docs/pages/access-controls/guides/headless.mdx, after:

---
title: Headless WebAuthn (Preview)
description: Headless WebAuthn
---

<Notice type="warning">
  Headless WebAuthn is currently in Preview mode.
</Notice>

Headless WebAuthn provides a secure way to authenticate with WebAuthn from a
machine without access to a WebAuthn device. This enables the use of WebAuthn
features which are usually not usable in WebAuthn-incompatible environments.
For example:

- Logging into Teleport with WebAuthn from a remote dev box
- Connecting to a Teleport SSH Service from a remote dev box with per-session MFA 
- Performing `tsh scp` from one Teleport SSH Service to another with per-session MFA
- Logging into Teleport on a machine without a WebAuthn-compatible browser

<Admonition type="note" title="Headless WebAuthn Support">
  Headless WebAuthn only supports the following `tsh` commands:
  
  - `tsh ls`
  - `tsh ssh`
  - `tsh scp`

  In the future, Headless WebAuthn will be extended to other `tsh` commands.
</Admonition>

## Prerequisites

- A v12.2+ Teleport cluster with WebAuthn configured.
  See the [Second Factor: WebAuthn](./webauthn.mdx) guide.
- WebAuthn hardware device, such as YubiKey.
- Machines for Headless WebAuthn activities have [Linux](../../installation.mdx#linux), [macOS](../../installation.mdx#macos) or [Windows](../../installation.mdx#windows-tsh-client-only) `tsh` binary v12.2+ installed.
- Machines used to approve Headless WebAuthn requests have a Web browser with [WebAuthn support](
  https://developers.yubico.com/WebAuthn/WebAuthn_Browser_Support/) or `tsh` binary v12.2+ installed.

## Step 1/3. Configuration

A v12.2+ Teleport cluster capable of WebAuthn is automatically capable of
Headless WebAuthn without any additional configuration.

<Details title="Optional: make Headless WebAuthn the default auth connector">

To make Headless WebAuthn the default authentication method for your Teleport
Cluster, add `connector_name: headless` to your cluster configuration.

Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
`tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.com
  connector_name: headless # headless by default
```

Update the configuration:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
# cluster auth preference has been updated
```
</Details>

<Details title="Alternative: disable Headless WebAuthn">

Headless WebAuthn is enabled automatically when WebAuthn is configured. If you
want to forbid Headless WebAuthn in your cluster, add `headless: false` to your
configuration.

Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
`tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.com
  headless: false # disable Headless WebAuthn
```

Update the configuration:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
# cluster auth preference has been updated
```

</Details>

## Step 2/3. Initiate Headless WebAuthn

First open a terminal on the remote machine and confirm the `tsh` binary
is v12.2+ with `tsh version`.

```code
$ tsh version
Teleport v(=teleport.version=) git: go(=teleport.golang=)
```

Run a headless `tsh` command with the `--headless` flag. This will initiate
headless authentication, printing a URL and `tsh` command.

```code
$ tsh ls --headless --proxy=proxy.example.com --user=alice
# Complete headless authentication in your local web browser:
# 
# https://proxy.example.com:3080/web/headless/86172f78-af7c-5935-a7c1-ed06b94f17dc
# 
# or execute this command in your local terminal:
# 
# tsh headless approve --user=alice --proxy=proxy.example.com 86172f78-af7c-5935-a7c1-ed06b94f17dc
```

## Step 3/3. Approve Headless WebAuthn

To approve the headless authentication, click or copy+paste the URL printed by
`tsh` in your local web browser. You will be prompted to approve the log in with
WebAuthn verification. Once approved, your initial `tsh --headless <command>`
should continue as if you had logged in locally.

Unlike a standard login session, headless sessions are only available for the
lifetime of a single `tsh` request. This means that for each `tsh --headless`
command, you will need to go through the Headless WebAuthn flow:

### Example: Listing SSH servers
```code 
$ tsh ls --headless --proxy=proxy.example.com --user=alice
# Complete headless authentication in your local web browser:
# 
# https://proxy.example.com:3080/web/headless/86172f78-af7c-5935-a7c1-ed06b94f17dc
# 
# or execute this command in your local terminal:
# 
# tsh headless approve --user=alice --proxy=proxy.example.com 86172f78-af7c-5935-a7c1-ed06b94f17dc
# # User approves through link
# Node Name Address        Labels                                                                             
# --------- -------------- -----------
# server01  127.0.0.1:3022 arch=x86_64
```

### Example: Initiating an SSH session
```code
$ tsh ssh --headless --proxy=proxy.example.com --user=alice server01
# Complete headless authentication in your local web browser:
# 
# https://proxy.example.com:3080/web/headless/864cccd9-2425-46d9-a9f2-636387e66ebf
# 
# or execute this command in your local terminal:
# 
# tsh headless approve --user=alice --proxy=proxy.example.com 864cccd9-2425-46d9-a9f2-636387e66ebf
# # User approves through link and a ssh terminal starts
alice@server01 $
```

<Notice type="note">
 The Teleport user, `--user` parameter, is the Teleport user requesting Headless WebAuthn activity. 
  If no `--user` parameter or environment variables set the OS user in the machine terminal is used.

  The login username, `--login` parameter or login@hostname, for `tsh ssh` commands is the user
  to open a SSH session as. If no login username for the SSH session is set the OS terminal username is used. 
  A Teleport user must have access to that login user for that server or they will receive 
  an access denied message. The user could receive an access denied message after being approved
  for their Headless WebAuthn activity since the same access rights are granted or denied as if running from
  your local terminal.
</Notice>

## Troubleshooting

### "WARN: Failed to lock system memory for headless login: ..."

When using Headless WebAuthn, `tsh` does not write private key and certificate data
to disk(`~/.tsh`). Instead, `tsh` holds these secrets in memory for the duration of
the request. Additionally, it will try to lock the process memory to further protect 
the secrets from being stolen by other users on a shared machine.

Below are some of the specific warning messages you may run into and how to fix them:

#### "operation not permitted" OR "cannot allocate memory"

In order to lock the process memory, your OS user must have permission to lock
the amount of memory needed. Use `ulimit -l` to check your OS user's current limit.
The exact amount of memory needed may vary from system to system, so we recommend
updating your ulimit to unlimited, with either `ulimit -l unlimited` or by adding
the line `<os_username> hard memlock unlimited` to your `/etc/security/limits.conf`.

#### "memory locking is not supported on non-linux operating systems"

The `mlockall` syscall is only supported on Linux operating systems. This means
that on other operating systems, the memory lock attempt will always fail and
output the warning. We recommend only using Headless WebAuthn on Linux machines
for the best level of security on shared machines.

#### Disable mlock

If the above solutions are not feasible in your environment, you can also disable
the memory locking requirement by setting the `--mlock` flag or `TELEPORT_MLOCK_MODE`
environment variable to `off` or `best_effort`. This is not recommended in production
environments on shared systems where a memory swap attack is possible.
