docs/pages/access-controls/guides/passwordless.mdx, before:

---
title: "Passwordless"
description: Learn how to use passwordless authentication with Teleport.
videoBanner: GA37qqB6Lmk
---

Passwordless takes advantage of WebAuthn to provide passwordless and
usernameless authentication for Teleport.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- Teleport must be configured for WebAuthn. See the [Second Factor:
  WebAuthn](./webauthn.mdx) guide.
- A hardware device with support for WebAuthn and resident keys.
  As an alternative, you can use a Mac with biometrics / Touch ID or device that
  supports Windows Hello (Windows 10 19H1 or later).
- A web browser with WebAuthn support. To see if your browser supports
  WebAuthn, check the [WebAuthn
  Compatibility](https://developers.yubico.com/WebAuthn/WebAuthn_Browser_Support/) page.
- A signed and notarized version of `tsh` is required for Touch ID. This precludes
  versions installed from Homebrew. [Download the macOS tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#macos).
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

A Teleport cluster capable of WebAuthn is automatically capable of passwordless.

## Step 1/2. Register

Register your passwordless device using `tsh`:

```code
$ tsh mfa add
# Choose device type [TOTP, WEBAUTHN, TOUCHID]: WEBAUTHN
# Enter device name: bio
# Allow passwordless logins [YES, NO]: YES
# Tap any *registered* security key
# Tap your *new* security key
# MFA device "bio" added.
```

You may pick either `WEBAUTHN` or `TOUCHID` as the device type. Make sure to
answer `YES` to "Allow passwordless logins".

If you are using a hardware device, a passwordless registration will occupy a
resident key slot. Resident keys, also called discoverable credentials, are
stored in persistent memory in the authenticator (i.e., the device that is used
to authenticate). In contrast, MFA keys are encrypted by the authenticator and
stored in the Teleport Auth Server. Regardless of your device type, passwordless
registrations may also be used for regular MFA.

<Admonition type="tip" title="Important">
If you plan on relying exclusively on passwordless, it's recommended to register
more than one device. A portable hardware device is ideal, as it can be shared
between `tsh`, the Teleport Web UI, and different computers.
</Admonition>

<Details
  title="Registering Touch ID for tsh"
  opened={true}
>
  Touch ID registrations are isolated by application. A Touch ID registration
  for `tsh` is different from a registration made from Chrome or Safari. You may
  register the same Touch ID device from multiple applications to get
  passwordless access in all of them.
</Details>

## Step 2/2. Authenticate

Authenticate using your passwordless credential:

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss"]} label="Teleport Community Edition">
```code
$ tsh login --proxy=example.com --auth=passwordless
# Tap your security key
# > Profile URL:        https://example.com
#   Logged in as:       codingllama
#   Cluster:            example.com
#   Roles:              access, editor
#   Logins:             codingllama
#   Kubernetes:         enabled
#   Valid until:        2021-10-04 23:32:29 -0700 PDT [valid for 12h0m0s]
#   Extensions:         permit-agent-forwarding, permit-port-forwarding, permit-pty
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise", "cloud"]} label="Commercial">
```code
$ tsh login --proxy=example.com --auth=passwordless
# Tap your security key
# > Profile URL:        https://example.com
#   Logged in as:       codingllama
#   Cluster:            example.com
#   Roles:              access, editor, reviewer
#   Logins:             codingllama
#   Kubernetes:         enabled
#   Valid until:        2021-10-04 23:32:29 -0700 PDT [valid for 12h0m0s]
#   Extensions:         permit-agent-forwarding, permit-port-forwarding, permit-pty
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

A fully passwordless cluster defaults to passwordless logins, making
`--auth=passwordless` unnecessary. See the next section to learn how to enable
passwordless by default.

<Admonition type="tip" title="Web UI">
You can also execute passwordless logins in the Teleport Web UI. To do so, look
for the passwordless link in the Web UI.
</Admonition>

## Optional: Enable passwordless by default

Passwordless enthusiasts may enable passwordless by default in their clusters.
Note that this configuration changes Teleport's behavior even for users without
a passwordless device registered, so existing users may need to authenticate
using `tsh login --proxy=example.com --auth=local` in order to get their first
passwordless registration.

To enable passwordless by default, add `connector_name: passwordless` to your
cluster configuration:

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss", "enterprise"]} label="Self-Hosted">
<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Static Config">
    Auth Server `teleport.yaml` file:

    ```yaml
    auth_service:
      authentication:
        type: local
        second_factor: on
        webauthn:
          rp_id: example.com
        connector_name: passwordless # passwordless by default
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Dynamic resources">
    Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
    `tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

    ```yaml
    kind: cluster_auth_preference
    version: v2
    metadata:
      name: cluster-auth-preference
    spec:
      type: local
      second_factor: "on"
      webauthn:
        rp_id: example.com
      connector_name: passwordless # passwordless by default
    ```

    Update the configuration:

    ```code
    $ tctl create -f cap.yaml
    # cluster auth preference has been updated
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
</TabItem>

<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Enterprise Cloud">
Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
`tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.com
  connector_name: passwordless # passwordless by default
```

Update the configuration:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
# cluster auth preference has been updated
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Troubleshooting

### "Allow passwordless logins" doesn't appear

If you don't see the "Allow passwordless logins" prompt during `tsh mfa add`,
you may be using an older version of `tsh`. Download the latest `tsh` from our
[installation page](../../installation.mdx).

### Hardware device not usable

`tsh` only prompts for hardware devices with certain capabilities for
passwordless registrations. If your device isn't blinking it may not be capable
of passwordless logins.

Below is a non-comprehensive list of requirements:

- Device must support WebAuthn (sometimes also called FIDO2 or CTAP2).
- Device must be capable of user verification (biometrics or PIN).
- Device must have a PIN set.
- Device must have fingerprints enrolled (if biometric). This typically means
  both a PIN *and* fingerprints.

`tsh` relies in an embedded libfido2 to access hardware devices. If you are
running on Linux, you may be missing the necessary udev rules to access your
device. Try following the [installation instructions for libfido2](
https://github.com/Yubico/libfido2#installation), which may provide you the
necessary udev rules.

### Touch ID not usable

If you are having trouble with Touch ID, make sure that you are using the latest
standalone version of `tsh`. [Download the macOS tsh installer](
../../installation.mdx#macos).

Touch ID support requires Macs with a Touch ID sensor and Secure Enclave. It also
requires macOS >= 10.13 (macOS High Sierra).

You can run the `tsh touchid diag` command to verify requirements. A capable
device and `tsh` binary should show an output similar to the one below:

```code
$ tsh touchid diag
# Has compile support? true
# Has signature? true
# Has entitlements? true
# Passed LAPolicy test? true
# Passed Secure Enclave test? true
# Touch ID enabled? true
```

### Windows Webauthn not usable

Windows Webauthn support for `tsh` requires Windows 10 19H1 or later.

You can run the `tsh webauthnwin diag` command to verify requirements. A capable
device and `tsh` binary should show the following output:

```code
$ tsh webauthnwin diag
# WebauthWin available: true
# Compile support: true
# DLL API version: 4
# Has platform UV: true
# Register successful: true
# Login successful: true
```

### Disable passwordless

If you want to forbid passwordless access to your cluster, add `passwordless:
false` to your configuration:

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss", "enterprise"]} label="Self-Hosted">
<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Static Config">
    Auth Server `teleport.yaml` file:

    ```yaml
    # snippet from /etc/teleport.yaml:
    auth_service:
      authentication:
        type: local
        second_factor: on
        webauthn:
          rp_id: example.com
        passwordless: false # disable passwordless
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Dynamic resources">
    Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
    `tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

    ```yaml
    kind: cluster_auth_preference
    version: v2
    metadata:
      name: cluster-auth-preference
    spec:
      type: local
      second_factor: "on"
      webauthn:
        rp_id: example.com
      passwordless: false # disable passwordless
    ```

    Update the configuration:

    ```code
    $ tctl create -f cap.yaml
    # cluster auth preference has been updated
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
</TabItem>

<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Enterprise Cloud">
Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
`tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.com
  passwordless: false # disable passwordless
```

Update the configuration:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
# cluster auth preference has been updated
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

Commit message:

[v15] docs: Don't provide commands to use Homebrew (#45127)
* docs: Don't provide commands to use Homebrew

Also clarify language around Touch ID support in versions installed from Homebrew

* Add note about building from source

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/access-controls/guides/passwordless.mdx, after:

---
title: "Passwordless"
description: Learn how to use passwordless authentication with Teleport.
videoBanner: GA37qqB6Lmk
---

Passwordless takes advantage of WebAuthn to provide passwordless and
usernameless authentication for Teleport.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- Teleport must be configured for WebAuthn. See the [Second Factor:
  WebAuthn](./webauthn.mdx) guide.
- A hardware device with support for WebAuthn and resident keys.
  As an alternative, you can use a Mac with biometrics / Touch ID or device that
  supports Windows Hello (Windows 10 19H1 or later).
- A web browser with WebAuthn support. To see if your browser supports
  WebAuthn, check the [WebAuthn
  Compatibility](https://developers.yubico.com/WebAuthn/WebAuthn_Browser_Support/) page.
- A signed and notarized version of `tsh` is required for Touch ID. This means versions
  installed from Homebrew or compiled from source will not work. [Download the macOS tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#macos).
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

A Teleport cluster capable of WebAuthn is automatically capable of passwordless.

## Step 1/2. Register

Register your passwordless device using `tsh`:

```code
$ tsh mfa add
# Choose device type [TOTP, WEBAUTHN, TOUCHID]: WEBAUTHN
# Enter device name: bio
# Allow passwordless logins [YES, NO]: YES
# Tap any *registered* security key
# Tap your *new* security key
# MFA device "bio" added.
```

You may pick either `WEBAUTHN` or `TOUCHID` as the device type. Make sure to
answer `YES` to "Allow passwordless logins".

If you are using a hardware device, a passwordless registration will occupy a
resident key slot. Resident keys, also called discoverable credentials, are
stored in persistent memory in the authenticator (i.e., the device that is used
to authenticate). In contrast, MFA keys are encrypted by the authenticator and
stored in the Teleport Auth Server. Regardless of your device type, passwordless
registrations may also be used for regular MFA.

<Admonition type="tip" title="Important">
If you plan on relying exclusively on passwordless, it's recommended to register
more than one device. A portable hardware device is ideal, as it can be shared
between `tsh`, the Teleport Web UI, and different computers.
</Admonition>

<Details
  title="Registering Touch ID for tsh"
  opened={true}
>
  Touch ID registrations are isolated by application. A Touch ID registration
  for `tsh` is different from a registration made from Chrome or Safari. You may
  register the same Touch ID device from multiple applications to get
  passwordless access in all of them.
</Details>

## Step 2/2. Authenticate

Authenticate using your passwordless credential:

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss"]} label="Teleport Community Edition">
```code
$ tsh login --proxy=example.com --auth=passwordless
# Tap your security key
# > Profile URL:        https://example.com
#   Logged in as:       codingllama
#   Cluster:            example.com
#   Roles:              access, editor
#   Logins:             codingllama
#   Kubernetes:         enabled
#   Valid until:        2021-10-04 23:32:29 -0700 PDT [valid for 12h0m0s]
#   Extensions:         permit-agent-forwarding, permit-port-forwarding, permit-pty
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise", "cloud"]} label="Commercial">
```code
$ tsh login --proxy=example.com --auth=passwordless
# Tap your security key
# > Profile URL:        https://example.com
#   Logged in as:       codingllama
#   Cluster:            example.com
#   Roles:              access, editor, reviewer
#   Logins:             codingllama
#   Kubernetes:         enabled
#   Valid until:        2021-10-04 23:32:29 -0700 PDT [valid for 12h0m0s]
#   Extensions:         permit-agent-forwarding, permit-port-forwarding, permit-pty
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

A fully passwordless cluster defaults to passwordless logins, making
`--auth=passwordless` unnecessary. See the next section to learn how to enable
passwordless by default.

<Admonition type="tip" title="Web UI">
You can also execute passwordless logins in the Teleport Web UI. To do so, look
for the passwordless link in the Web UI.
</Admonition>

## Optional: Enable passwordless by default

Passwordless enthusiasts may enable passwordless by default in their clusters.
Note that this configuration changes Teleport's behavior even for users without
a passwordless device registered, so existing users may need to authenticate
using `tsh login --proxy=example.com --auth=local` in order to get their first
passwordless registration.

To enable passwordless by default, add `connector_name: passwordless` to your
cluster configuration:

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss", "enterprise"]} label="Self-Hosted">
<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Static Config">
    Auth Server `teleport.yaml` file:

    ```yaml
    auth_service:
      authentication:
        type: local
        second_factor: on
        webauthn:
          rp_id: example.com
        connector_name: passwordless # passwordless by default
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Dynamic resources">
    Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
    `tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

    ```yaml
    kind: cluster_auth_preference
    version: v2
    metadata:
      name: cluster-auth-preference
    spec:
      type: local
      second_factor: "on"
      webauthn:
        rp_id: example.com
      connector_name: passwordless # passwordless by default
    ```

    Update the configuration:

    ```code
    $ tctl create -f cap.yaml
    # cluster auth preference has been updated
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
</TabItem>

<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Enterprise Cloud">
Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
`tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.com
  connector_name: passwordless # passwordless by default
```

Update the configuration:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
# cluster auth preference has been updated
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Troubleshooting

### "Allow passwordless logins" doesn't appear

If you don't see the "Allow passwordless logins" prompt during `tsh mfa add`,
you may be using an older version of `tsh`. Download the latest `tsh` from our
[installation page](../../installation.mdx).

### Hardware device not usable

`tsh` only prompts for hardware devices with certain capabilities for
passwordless registrations. If your device isn't blinking it may not be capable
of passwordless logins.

Below is a non-comprehensive list of requirements:

- Device must support WebAuthn (sometimes also called FIDO2 or CTAP2).
- Device must be capable of user verification (biometrics or PIN).
- Device must have a PIN set.
- Device must have fingerprints enrolled (if biometric). This typically means
  both a PIN *and* fingerprints.

`tsh` relies in an embedded libfido2 to access hardware devices. If you are
running on Linux, you may be missing the necessary udev rules to access your
device. Try following the [installation instructions for libfido2](
https://github.com/Yubico/libfido2#installation), which may provide you the
necessary udev rules.

### Touch ID not usable

If you are having trouble with Touch ID, make sure that you are using the latest
standalone version of `tsh`. [Download the macOS tsh installer](
../../installation.mdx#macos).

Touch ID support requires Macs with a Touch ID sensor and Secure Enclave. It also
requires macOS >= 10.13 (macOS High Sierra).

You can run the `tsh touchid diag` command to verify requirements. A capable
device and `tsh` binary should show an output similar to the one below:

```code
$ tsh touchid diag
# Has compile support? true
# Has signature? true
# Has entitlements? true
# Passed LAPolicy test? true
# Passed Secure Enclave test? true
# Touch ID enabled? true
```

### Windows Webauthn not usable

Windows Webauthn support for `tsh` requires Windows 10 19H1 or later.

You can run the `tsh webauthnwin diag` command to verify requirements. A capable
device and `tsh` binary should show the following output:

```code
$ tsh webauthnwin diag
# WebauthWin available: true
# Compile support: true
# DLL API version: 4
# Has platform UV: true
# Register successful: true
# Login successful: true
```

### Disable passwordless

If you want to forbid passwordless access to your cluster, add `passwordless:
false` to your configuration:

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss", "enterprise"]} label="Self-Hosted">
<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Static Config">
    Auth Server `teleport.yaml` file:

    ```yaml
    # snippet from /etc/teleport.yaml:
    auth_service:
      authentication:
        type: local
        second_factor: on
        webauthn:
          rp_id: example.com
        passwordless: false # disable passwordless
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Dynamic resources">
    Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
    `tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

    ```yaml
    kind: cluster_auth_preference
    version: v2
    metadata:
      name: cluster-auth-preference
    spec:
      type: local
      second_factor: "on"
      webauthn:
        rp_id: example.com
      passwordless: false # disable passwordless
    ```

    Update the configuration:

    ```code
    $ tctl create -f cap.yaml
    # cluster auth preference has been updated
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
</TabItem>

<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Enterprise Cloud">
Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
`tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.com
  passwordless: false # disable passwordless
```

Update the configuration:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
# cluster auth preference has been updated
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>
