docs/pages/admin-guides/infrastructure-as-code/terraform-provider/long-lived-credentials.mdx, before:

---
title: Run the Teleport Terraform Provider with Long-Lived Credentials
description: How to manage dynamic resources using the Teleport Terraform provider from anywhere with long-lived credentials.
---

This guide explains you how to create a Terraform user and have the Teleport Auth Service sign long-lived credentials
for it. The Teleport Terraform Provider can then user those credentials to interact with Teleport.

<Admonition type="warning">

Long-lived credentials are less secure and their usage is discouraged. You must protect and rotate the credentials as
they hold full Teleport administrative access. You should prefer
using [`tbot`](./dedicated-server.mdx), [native MachineID joining](./ci-or-cloud.mdx) in CI or Cloud environments,
or [create temporary bots for local use](./local.mdx) when possible.

See [the list of possible Terraform provider setups](terraform-provider.mdx) to find which one fits your
use-case.

</Admonition>


<Admonition type="important">

Long-lived credentials are not compatible with MFA for administrative actions (MFA4A)
which is an additional security layer that protects Teleport in case of Identity Provider (IdP) compromise.

</Admonition>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- [Terraform >= (=terraform.version=)+](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli)

  ```code
  $ terraform version
  # Terraform v(=terraform.version=)
  ```

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/3. Create Teleport credentials for Terraform

Terraform needs a signed identity file from the Teleport cluster certificate authority to manage resources in the
cluster. You will create a local Teleport user for this purpose.

1. Create a folder called `teleport-terraform` to hold temporary files:

   ```code
   $ mkdir -p teleport-terraform
   $ cd teleport-terraform
   ```

1. Create a new file called `terraform.yaml` and open it in an editor.

1. Configure settings for a local Teleport user and role by pasting the following content into the `terraform.yaml` file:

   ```yaml
   kind: user
   metadata:
     name: terraform
   spec:
     roles: ['terraform-provider']
   version: v2
   ```
   (!docs/pages/includes/management/dynamic-resources/terraform-role.mdx!)

   These settings configure a user and role named `terraform` with the permissions
   required to manage resources in your Teleport cluster.

1. Create the `terraform` user and role by running the following command:

   ```code
   $ tctl create terraform.yaml
   ```

   The `terraform` user can't sign in to get credentials, so you must have another user
   **impersonate** the `terraform` account to request a certificate.

1. Create a new file called `terraform-impersonator.yaml` and open it in an editor.

1. Configure a role that enables your user to impersonate the Terraform user by pasting
   the following content into the `terraform-impersonator.yaml` file:

   ```yaml
   kind: role
   version: v7
   metadata:
     name: terraform-impersonator
   spec:
     allow:
       # This impersonate role allows any user assigned to this role to impersonate
       # and generate certificates for the user named "terraform" with a role also
       # named "terraform".
       impersonate:
         users: ['terraform']
         roles: ['terraform']
   ```

1. Create the `terraform-impersonator` role by running the following command:

   ```code
   $ tctl create terraform-impersonator.yaml
   ```

1. (!docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx role="terraform-impersonator"!)

1. Request a signed identity file for the Terraform user by running the following command:

   ```code
   $ tctl auth sign --user=terraform --out=terraform-identity
   ```

   After running this command, you have a `terraform-identity` file with credentials for the Terraform user.

## Step 2/3. Prepare a Terraform configuration file

To prepare a Terraform configuration file:

1. Create a new file called `main.tf` and open it in an editor.

1. Define an example user and role using Terraform by pasting the following
   content into the `main.tf` file, replacing 
   <Var name="teleport.example.com:443" /> with the host and port of the
   Teleport Proxy Service:

   ```hcl
   terraform {
      required_providers {
         teleport = {
            source  = "terraform.releases.teleport.dev/gravitational/teleport"
            version = "~> (=teleport.major_version=).0"
         }
      }
   }
   
   provider "teleport" {
      addr               = '<Var name="teleport.example.com:443" />'
      identity_file_path = "terraform-identity"
   }
   
   # We must create a test role, if we don't declare resources, Terraform won't try to
   # connect to Teleport and we won't be able to validate the setup.
   resource "teleport_role" "test" {
      version = "v7"
      metadata = {
         name        = "test"
         description = "Dummy role to validate Terraform Provider setup"
         labels = {
            test = "yes"
         }
      }
   
      spec = {}
   }
   ```

## Step 3/3. Apply the configuration

To apply the configuration:

1. Check the contents of the `teleport-terraform` folder:

   ```code
   $ ls
   # main.tf  terraform-identity  terraform-impersonator.yaml  terraform.yaml
   ```

1. Initialize the working directory that contains Terraform configuration files by running the
   following command:

   ```code
   $ terraform init
   Initializing the backend...
   
   Initializing provider plugins...
   - Finding terraform.releases.teleport.dev/gravitational/teleport versions matching ...
   ```

1. Execute the Terraform plan defined in the configuration file by running the
   following command:

   ```code
   $ terraform apply
   Terraform used the selected providers to generate the following execution plan. Resource actions are indicated with the following symbols:
   + create
   
   Terraform will perform the following actions:
   
   # teleport_role.test will be created
   + resource "teleport_role" "test" {
      + id       = (known after apply)
      + kind     = (known after apply)
      + metadata = {
         + name      = "test"
         + namespace = (known after apply)
           }
      + spec     = {}
      + version  = "v7"
        }
   
   Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
   ```

## Next steps

- Explore the full list of supported [Terraform provider
  resources](../../../reference/terraform-provider/terraform-provider.mdx).
- Learn [how to manage users and roles with
  IaC](../managing-resources/user-and-role.mdx)
- Read more about
  [impersonation](../../access-controls/guides/impersonation.mdx).

Commit message:

docs: Include reference to macOS/Linux hosts for Terraform Provider prereqs

docs/pages/admin-guides/infrastructure-as-code/terraform-provider/long-lived-credentials.mdx, after:

---
title: Run the Teleport Terraform Provider with Long-Lived Credentials
description: How to manage dynamic resources using the Teleport Terraform provider from anywhere with long-lived credentials.
---

This guide explains you how to create a Terraform user and have the Teleport Auth Service sign long-lived credentials
for it. The Teleport Terraform Provider can then user those credentials to interact with Teleport.

<Admonition type="warning">

Long-lived credentials are less secure and their usage is discouraged. You must protect and rotate the credentials as
they hold full Teleport administrative access. You should prefer
using [`tbot`](./dedicated-server.mdx), [native MachineID joining](./ci-or-cloud.mdx) in CI or Cloud environments,
or [create temporary bots for local use](./local.mdx) when possible.

See [the list of possible Terraform provider setups](terraform-provider.mdx) to find which one fits your
use-case.

</Admonition>


<Admonition type="important">

Long-lived credentials are not compatible with MFA for administrative actions (MFA4A)
which is an additional security layer that protects Teleport in case of Identity Provider (IdP) compromise.

</Admonition>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A macOS or Linux host for the Terraform command executions.

- [Terraform >= (=terraform.version=)+](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli)

  ```code
  $ terraform version
  # Terraform v(=terraform.version=)
  ```
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/3. Create Teleport credentials for Terraform

Terraform needs a signed identity file from the Teleport cluster certificate authority to manage resources in the
cluster. You will create a local Teleport user for this purpose.

1. Create a folder called `teleport-terraform` to hold temporary files:

   ```code
   $ mkdir -p teleport-terraform
   $ cd teleport-terraform
   ```

1. Create a new file called `terraform.yaml` and open it in an editor.

1. Configure settings for a local Teleport user and role by pasting the following content into the `terraform.yaml` file:

   ```yaml
   kind: user
   metadata:
     name: terraform
   spec:
     roles: ['terraform-provider']
   version: v2
   ```
   (!docs/pages/includes/management/dynamic-resources/terraform-role.mdx!)

   These settings configure a user and role named `terraform` with the permissions
   required to manage resources in your Teleport cluster.

1. Create the `terraform` user and role by running the following command:

   ```code
   $ tctl create terraform.yaml
   ```

   The `terraform` user can't sign in to get credentials, so you must have another user
   **impersonate** the `terraform` account to request a certificate.

1. Create a new file called `terraform-impersonator.yaml` and open it in an editor.

1. Configure a role that enables your user to impersonate the Terraform user by pasting
   the following content into the `terraform-impersonator.yaml` file:

   ```yaml
   kind: role
   version: v7
   metadata:
     name: terraform-impersonator
   spec:
     allow:
       # This impersonate role allows any user assigned to this role to impersonate
       # and generate certificates for the user named "terraform" with a role also
       # named "terraform".
       impersonate:
         users: ['terraform']
         roles: ['terraform']
   ```

1. Create the `terraform-impersonator` role by running the following command:

   ```code
   $ tctl create terraform-impersonator.yaml
   ```

1. (!docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx role="terraform-impersonator"!)

1. Request a signed identity file for the Terraform user by running the following command:

   ```code
   $ tctl auth sign --user=terraform --out=terraform-identity
   ```

   After running this command, you have a `terraform-identity` file with credentials for the Terraform user.

## Step 2/3. Prepare a Terraform configuration file

To prepare a Terraform configuration file:

1. Create a new file called `main.tf` and open it in an editor.

1. Define an example user and role using Terraform by pasting the following
   content into the `main.tf` file, replacing 
   <Var name="teleport.example.com:443" /> with the host and port of the
   Teleport Proxy Service:

   ```hcl
   terraform {
      required_providers {
         teleport = {
            source  = "terraform.releases.teleport.dev/gravitational/teleport"
            version = "~> (=teleport.major_version=).0"
         }
      }
   }
   
   provider "teleport" {
      addr               = '<Var name="teleport.example.com:443" />'
      identity_file_path = "terraform-identity"
   }
   
   # We must create a test role, if we don't declare resources, Terraform won't try to
   # connect to Teleport and we won't be able to validate the setup.
   resource "teleport_role" "test" {
      version = "v7"
      metadata = {
         name        = "test"
         description = "Dummy role to validate Terraform Provider setup"
         labels = {
            test = "yes"
         }
      }
   
      spec = {}
   }
   ```

## Step 3/3. Apply the configuration

To apply the configuration:

1. Check the contents of the `teleport-terraform` folder:

   ```code
   $ ls
   # main.tf  terraform-identity  terraform-impersonator.yaml  terraform.yaml
   ```

1. Initialize the working directory that contains Terraform configuration files by running the
   following command:

   ```code
   $ terraform init
   Initializing the backend...
   
   Initializing provider plugins...
   - Finding terraform.releases.teleport.dev/gravitational/teleport versions matching ...
   ```

1. Execute the Terraform plan defined in the configuration file by running the
   following command:

   ```code
   $ terraform apply
   Terraform used the selected providers to generate the following execution plan. Resource actions are indicated with the following symbols:
   + create
   
   Terraform will perform the following actions:
   
   # teleport_role.test will be created
   + resource "teleport_role" "test" {
      + id       = (known after apply)
      + kind     = (known after apply)
      + metadata = {
         + name      = "test"
         + namespace = (known after apply)
           }
      + spec     = {}
      + version  = "v7"
        }
   
   Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
   ```

## Next steps

- Explore the full list of supported [Terraform provider
  resources](../../../reference/terraform-provider/terraform-provider.mdx).
- Learn [how to manage users and roles with
  IaC](../managing-resources/user-and-role.mdx)
- Read more about
  [impersonation](../../access-controls/guides/impersonation.mdx).
