docs/pages/admin-guides/management/admin/uninstall-teleport.mdx, before:

---
title: Uninstall Teleport
description: How to remove Teleport from your system
---

This guide explains how to uninstall Teleport completely including binaries, configurations and data.

## Prerequisites

- A system with Teleport installed.

<Admonition type="warning">
These instructions only apply to non-containerized installations of Teleport.

If you are running Teleport in Kubernetes, you should uninstall the Helm chart release instead:

```code
# Example: uninstall the Helm release named 'teleport-kube-agent' in the 'teleport' namespace
$ helm uninstall --namespace teleport teleport-kube-agent
```

If you are running Teleport in Docker, you should stop the Teleport Docker container:

```code
# Example: Stop the Docker container named 'teleport'
$ docker stop teleport
```
</Admonition>

## Step 1/3. Stop any running Teleport processes

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Linux">
    Instruct `systemd` to stop the Teleport process, and disable it from automatically starting:

    ```code
    $ sudo systemctl stop teleport
    $ sudo systemctl disable teleport
    ```

    If these `systemd` commands do not work, you can "kill" all the running Teleport processes instead:

    ```code
    $ sudo killall teleport
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="macOS">

    Instruct `launchd` to stop the Teleport process, and disable it from automatically starting:

    ```code
    $ sudo launchctl unload -w /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.goteleport.teleport.plist
    $ sudo rm -f /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.goteleport.teleport.plist
    ```

   If these commands do not work, you can "kill" all the running Teleport processes instead:

    ```code
    $ sudo killall teleport
    ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Windows">

    There are currently no long-running Teleport processes on Windows machines.

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 2/3. Remove Teleport binaries

Follow the steps for your operating system to remove Teleport binaries.

### Linux

Follow the instructions for your Linux distribution:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Debian/Ubuntu Linux (DEB)">

  Uninstall the Teleport binary using APT:

  ```code
  $ sudo apt-get -y remove teleport-ent
  ```

  For Teleport Community Edition, use the following command:

  ```code
  $ sudo apt-get -y remove teleport
  ```

  Uninstall the Teleport APT repo:

  ```code
  $ sudo rm -f /etc/apt/sources.list.d/teleport.list
  ```

  <Admonition type="note" title="Uninstall standalone DEB package">
  If the commands above do not work, you may have installed Teleport using a standalone DEB package. Remove it with:

  ```code
  # Use "teleport" instead of "teleport-ent" for Teleport Community Edition
  $ sudo dpkg -r teleport-ent
  ```
  </Admonition>

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Amazon Linux 2/RHEL (RPM)">

  Uninstall the Teleport binary using YUM:

  ```code
  # Change the package name to "teleport" for Teleport Community Edition
  $ sudo yum -y remove teleport-ent
  # Optional: Use DNF on newer distributions
  # $ sudo dnf -y remove teleport-ent
  ```

  Uninstall the Teleport YUM repo:

  ```code
  $ sudo rm -f /etc/yum.repos.d/teleport.repo
  ```

  <Admonition type="note" title="Uninstall standalone RPM package">
  If the commands above do not work, you may have installed Teleport using a standalone RPM package. Remove it with:

  ```code
  # Use "teleport" for Teleport Community Edition
  $ sudo rpm -e teleport-ent
  ```
  </Admonition>

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (zypper)">

  Uninstall the Teleport binary using zypper:

  ```code
  # Change the package name to "teleport" for Teleport Community Edition
  $ sudo zypper -y remove teleport-ent
  ```

  Uninstall the Teleport zypper repo:

  ```code
  $ sudo zypper removerepo teleport
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Linux Tarball">

  <Admonition type="note">
  These are the default paths to the Teleport binaries. If you have changed these from the defaults on your system, substitute those paths here.
  You can use `dirname $(which teleport)` to look this up automatically.
  </Admonition>

  Remove the Teleport binaries from the machine:

  ```code
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/tbot
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/tctl
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/teleport
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/tsh
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/fdpass-teleport
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### macOS

  <Admonition type="note">
  These are the default paths to the Teleport binaries. If you have changed these from the defaults on your system, substitute those paths here.
  You can use `dirname $(which teleport)` to look this up automatically.
  </Admonition>

  Remove the Teleport binaries and links to Teleport software from the machine:

  ```code
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/tbot
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/tctl
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/teleport
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/tsh
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/fdpass-teleport
  ```

  <Admonition type="note" title="Uninstall macOS client tools">

  You may have Teleport software in the `/Applications` folder if you:
  - Installed from a macOS tarball for v17+ that includes `tsh.app` and `tctl.app`
  - Installed the macOS `tsh` client-only package for v16 or older versions.
  - Installed Teleport Connect for macOS  
     
  You can remove those with these commands:

  ```code
  $ sudo rm -rf /Applications/tsh.app
  $ sudo rm -rf /Applications/tctl.app
  $ sudo rm -rf /Applications/Teleport\ Connect.app
  ```
  </Admonition>

### Windows

  Remove the `tsh.exe` and `tctl.exe` binaries from the machine:

  ```code
  $ del C:\Path\To\tsh.exe
  $ del C:\Path\To\tctl.exe
  ```
(!docs/pages/includes/uninstall-teleport-connect-windows.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/uninstall-windows-auth.mdx!)

## Step 3/3. Remove Teleport data and configuration files

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Linux">
    <Admonition type="note">
    These are the default paths to the Teleport config files and data directory.
    If you have changed these from the defaults on your system, substitute those paths here.
    </Admonition>

    Remove the Teleport config file:

    ```code
    $ sudo rm -f /etc/teleport.yaml
    # Optional: Also remove the Machine ID config file, if you used it
    # $ sudo rm -f /etc/tbot.yaml
    ```

    Remove the Teleport data directory:

    ```code
    $ sudo rm -rf /var/lib/teleport
    ```

     Optionally, also remove the global config file and local user data directory for `tsh`:

    ```code
    $ sudo rm -f /etc/tsh.yaml
    $ rm -rf ~/.tsh
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="MacOS">
    <Admonition type="note">
    These are the default paths to the Teleport config files and data directory.
    If you have changed these from the defaults on your system, substitute those paths here.
    </Admonition>

    Remove the Teleport config file:

    ```code
    $ sudo rm -f /etc/teleport.yaml
    # Optional: Also remove the Machine ID config file, if you used it
    # $ sudo rm -f /etc/tbot.yaml
    ```

    Remove the Teleport data directory:

    ```code
    $ sudo rm -rf /var/lib/teleport
    ```

    Optionally, also remove:
    - the global config file and local user data directory for `tsh`
    - the local user data directory for Teleport Connect

    ```code
    # tsh
    $ sudo rm -f /etc/tsh.yaml
    $ rm -rf ~/.tsh
    # Teleport Connect
    $ rm -rf ~/Library/Application\ Support/Teleport\ Connect
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Windows">

   Remove the local user data directory for `tsh`:

   ```code
   $ rmdir /s /q %USERPROFILE%\.tsh
   ```

   Optionally, also remove the local user data directory for Teleport Connect:

   ```code
   $ rmdir /s /q "%APPDATA%\Teleport Connect"
   ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Teleport is now removed from your system.

Any Teleport services will stop appearing in your Teleport Web UI or the output of `tsh ls` once their last heartbeat has timed out. This usually occurs within 10-15 minutes of stopping the Teleport process.

Commit message:

docs: update uninstall to include Managed updates v2

docs/pages/admin-guides/management/admin/uninstall-teleport.mdx, after:

---
title: Uninstall Teleport
description: How to remove Teleport from your system
---

This guide explains how to uninstall Teleport completely including binaries, configurations and data.

## Prerequisites

- A system with Teleport installed.

<Admonition type="warning">
These instructions only apply to non-containerized installations of Teleport.

If you are running Teleport in Kubernetes, you should uninstall the Helm chart release instead:

```code
# Example: uninstall the Helm release named 'teleport-kube-agent' in the 'teleport' namespace
$ helm uninstall --namespace teleport teleport-kube-agent
```

If you are running Teleport in Docker, you should stop the Teleport Docker container:

```code
# Example: Stop the Docker container named 'teleport'
$ docker stop teleport
```
</Admonition>

## Step 1/3. Stop any running Teleport processes

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Linux">
    Instruct `systemd` to stop the Teleport process, and disable it from automatically starting:

    ```code
    $ sudo systemctl stop teleport
    $ sudo systemctl disable teleport
    ```

    If these `systemd` commands do not work, you can "kill" all the running Teleport processes instead:

    ```code
    $ sudo killall teleport
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="macOS">

    Instruct `launchd` to stop the Teleport process, and disable it from automatically starting:

    ```code
    $ sudo launchctl unload -w /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.goteleport.teleport.plist
    $ sudo rm -f /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.goteleport.teleport.plist
    ```

   If these commands do not work, you can "kill" all the running Teleport processes instead:

    ```code
    $ sudo killall teleport
    ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Windows">

    There are currently no long-running Teleport processes on Windows machines.

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 2/3. Remove Teleport binaries

Follow the steps for your operating system to remove Teleport binaries.

### Linux

Follow the instructions for your Linux distribution:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Debian/Ubuntu Linux (DEB)">

  Uninstall the Teleport binary using APT:

  ```code
  $ sudo apt-get -y remove teleport-ent
  ```

  For Teleport Community Edition, use the following command:

  ```code
  $ sudo apt-get -y remove teleport
  ```

  Uninstall the Teleport APT repo:

  ```code
  $ sudo rm -f /etc/apt/sources.list.d/teleport.list
  ```

  <Admonition type="note" title="Uninstall standalone DEB package">
  If the commands above do not work, you may have installed Teleport using a standalone DEB package. Remove it with:

  ```code
  # Use "teleport" instead of "teleport-ent" for Teleport Community Edition
  $ sudo dpkg -r teleport-ent
  ```
  </Admonition>

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Amazon Linux 2/RHEL (RPM)">

  Uninstall the Teleport binary using YUM:

  ```code
  # Change the package name to "teleport" for Teleport Community Edition
  $ sudo yum -y remove teleport-ent
  # Optional: Use DNF on newer distributions
  # $ sudo dnf -y remove teleport-ent
  ```

  Uninstall the Teleport YUM repo:

  ```code
  $ sudo rm -f /etc/yum.repos.d/teleport.repo
  ```

  <Admonition type="note" title="Uninstall standalone RPM package">
  If the commands above do not work, you may have installed Teleport using a standalone RPM package. Remove it with:

  ```code
  # Use "teleport" for Teleport Community Edition
  $ sudo rpm -e teleport-ent
  ```
  </Admonition>

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (zypper)">

  Uninstall the Teleport binary using zypper:

  ```code
  # Change the package name to "teleport" for Teleport Community Edition
  $ sudo zypper -y remove teleport-ent
  ```

  Uninstall the Teleport zypper repo:

  ```code
  $ sudo zypper removerepo teleport
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Linux Tarball">

  <Admonition type="note">
  These are the default paths to the Teleport binaries. If you have changed these from the defaults on your system, substitute those paths here.
  You can use `dirname $(which teleport)` to look this up automatically.
  </Admonition>

  Remove the Teleport binaries from the machine:

  ```code
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/tbot
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/tctl
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/teleport
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/tsh
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/fdpass-teleport
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/teleport-update
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Managed Updates v2">

  If you are leveraging the Managed Updates v2 introduced in v17.3 Teleport binaries are symbolically 
  linked under `/opt/teleport`. Multiple versions of Teleport and associated Teleport data may be under this directory.

  Remove the Teleport binary symbolic links from the machine:

  ```code
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/tbot
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/tctl
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/teleport
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/tsh
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/fdpass-teleport
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/teleport-update
  ```

  Remove the Teleport directory to remove versions of the Teleport binary and files.

  <Admonition type="note">
  Deleting this directory assumes that no other usage besides Teleport binary versiona and associated Teleport data is stored here.
  </Admonition>

  ```code
  $ sudo rm -rf /opt/teleport
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### macOS

  <Admonition type="note">
  These are the default paths to the Teleport binaries. If you have changed these from the defaults on your system, substitute those paths here.
  You can use `dirname $(which teleport)` to look this up automatically.
  </Admonition>

  Remove the Teleport binaries and links to Teleport software from the machine:

  ```code
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/tbot
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/tctl
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/teleport
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/tsh
  $ sudo rm -f /usr/local/bin/fdpass-teleport
  ```

  <Admonition type="note" title="Uninstall macOS client tools">

  You may have Teleport software in the `/Applications` folder if you:
  - Installed from a macOS tarball for v17+ that includes `tsh.app` and `tctl.app`
  - Installed the macOS `tsh` client-only package for v16 or older versions.
  - Installed Teleport Connect for macOS  
     
  You can remove those with these commands:

  ```code
  $ sudo rm -rf /Applications/tsh.app
  $ sudo rm -rf /Applications/tctl.app
  $ sudo rm -rf /Applications/Teleport\ Connect.app
  ```
  </Admonition>

### Windows

  Remove the `tsh.exe` and `tctl.exe` binaries from the machine:

  ```code
  $ del C:\Path\To\tsh.exe
  $ del C:\Path\To\tctl.exe
  ```
(!docs/pages/includes/uninstall-teleport-connect-windows.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/uninstall-windows-auth.mdx!)

## Step 3/3. Remove Teleport data and configuration files

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Linux">
    <Admonition type="note">
    These are the default paths to the Teleport config files and data directory.
    If you have changed these from the defaults on your system, substitute those paths here.
    </Admonition>

    Remove the Teleport config file:

    ```code
    $ sudo rm -f /etc/teleport.yaml
    # Optional: Also remove the Machine ID config file, if you used it
    # $ sudo rm -f /etc/tbot.yaml
    ```

    Remove the Teleport data directory:

    ```code
    $ sudo rm -rf /var/lib/teleport
    ```

     Optionally, also remove the global config file and local user data directory for `tsh`:

    ```code
    $ sudo rm -f /etc/tsh.yaml
    $ rm -rf ~/.tsh
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="MacOS">
    <Admonition type="note">
    These are the default paths to the Teleport config files and data directory.
    If you have changed these from the defaults on your system, substitute those paths here.
    </Admonition>

    Remove the Teleport config file:

    ```code
    $ sudo rm -f /etc/teleport.yaml
    # Optional: Also remove the Machine ID config file, if you used it
    # $ sudo rm -f /etc/tbot.yaml
    ```

    Remove the Teleport data directory:

    ```code
    $ sudo rm -rf /var/lib/teleport
    ```

    Optionally, also remove:
    - the global config file and local user data directory for `tsh`
    - the local user data directory for Teleport Connect

    ```code
    # tsh
    $ sudo rm -f /etc/tsh.yaml
    $ rm -rf ~/.tsh
    # Teleport Connect
    $ rm -rf ~/Library/Application\ Support/Teleport\ Connect
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Windows">

   Remove the local user data directory for `tsh`:

   ```code
   $ rmdir /s /q %USERPROFILE%\.tsh
   ```

   Optionally, also remove the local user data directory for Teleport Connect:

   ```code
   $ rmdir /s /q "%APPDATA%\Teleport Connect"
   ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Teleport is now removed from your system.

Any Teleport services will stop appearing in your Teleport Web UI or the output of `tsh ls` once their last heartbeat has timed out. This usually occurs within 10-15 minutes of stopping the Teleport process.
