docs/pages/deploy-a-cluster/helm-deployments/custom.mdx, before:

---
title: Running Teleport with a Custom Configuration using Helm
description: Install and configure a Teleport cluster with a custom configuration using Helm
---

In this guide, we'll explain how to set up a Teleport cluster in Kubernetes
with custom [`teleport.yaml`](../../reference/config.mdx) config file elements
using Teleport Helm charts.

(!docs/pages/includes/cloud/call-to-action.mdx!)

This setup can be useful when you already have an existing Teleport cluster and would
like to start running it in Kubernetes, or when migrating your setup from a legacy
version of the Helm charts.

If you are already running Teleport on another platform, you can use your
existing Teleport deployment to access your Kubernetes cluster. [Follow our
guide](../../kubernetes-access/getting-started.mdx) to connect your Kubernetes
cluster to Teleport.

## Prerequisites

<Admonition type="warning">
Those instructions are both for v12+ Teleport and the v12+ `teleport-cluster` chart.
If you are running an older Teleport version, use the version selector at the top
of this page to choose the correct version.
</Admonition>

(!docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/teleport-cluster-prereqs.mdx!)

## Step 1/4. Install Helm

(!docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/teleport-cluster-install.mdx!)

## Step 2/4. Add the Teleport Helm chart repository

(!docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/helm-repo-add.mdx!)

## Step 3/4. Setting up a Teleport cluster with Helm using a custom config

`teleport-cluster` deploys two sets of pods: one for the Proxy Service and one for the Auth Service. You can provide two configurations, one for each pod type.

- Any values set under the `proxy` section of your chart values will be applied to the Proxy Service pods
  only. You can provide custom YAML under `proxy.teleportConfig` to override elements of the default Teleport
  Proxy Service configuration with your own.
- Any values set under the `auth` section of your chart values will be applied to the Auth Service pods only.
  You can provide custom YAML under `auth.teleportConfig` to override elements of the default Teleport Auth
  Service configuration with your own.

Any YAML you provide under a `teleportConfig` section will be merged with the chart's default YAML configuration,
with your overrides taking precedence. This allows you to override only the exact behaviour that you need, while keeping
the Teleport-recommended chart defaults for everything else.

Also, note that many useful Teleport features can already be configured using chart values rather than custom YAML.
Setting `publicAddr` is the same as setting `proxy.teleportConfig.proxy_service.public_addr`, for example.

<Admonition type="warning">
When using `scratch` or `standalone` mode, you **must** use highly-available
storage (e.g. etcd, DynamoDB, or Firestore) for multiple replicas to be supported.

[Information on supported Teleport storage backends](../../reference/backends.mdx)

Manually configuring NFS-based storage or `ReadWriteMany` volume claims is **NOT**
supported for an HA deployment and will result in errors.
</Admonition>

Write the following `my-values.yaml` file, and adapt the teleport configuration as needed.
You can find all possible configuration fields in the [Teleport Config Reference](../../reference/config.mdx).

```yaml
chartMode: standalone
clusterName: teleport.example.com

auth:
  teleportConfig:
    # put any teleport.yaml auth configuration overrides here
    teleport:
      log:
        output: stderr
        severity: DEBUG

    auth_service:
      enabled: true
      web_idle_timeout: 1h
      authentication:
        locking_mode: best_effort

proxy:
  teleportConfig:
    # put any teleport.yaml proxy configuration overrides here
    teleport:
      log:
        output: stderr
        severity: DEBUG

    proxy_service:
      https_keypairs_reload_interval: 12h
      # optionally override the public addresses for the cluster
      # public_addr: custom.example.com:443
      # tunnel_public_addr: custom.example.com:3024

# If you are running Kubernetes 1.23 or above, disable PodSecurityPolicies
podSecurityPolicy:
  enabled: false

# OPTIONAL - when using highly-available storage for both backend AND session recordings
# you can disable disk persistence and replicate auth pods.
#
# persistence:
#   enabled: false
# highAvailability:
#   replicaCount: 2
```

You can override the externally-facing name of your cluster using the `publicAddr` value in your
Helm configuration, or by setting `proxy.teleportConfig.proxy_service.public_addr`. In this
example, however, our `publicAddr` is automatically set to `teleport.example.com:443` based on the
configured `clusterName`.

Create the namespace containing the Teleport-related resources and configure the
`PodSecurityAdmission`:

```code
$ kubectl create namespace teleport
namespace/teleport created
$ kubectl label namespace teleport 'pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce=baseline'
namespace/teleport labeled
```

<ScopedBlock scope="enterprise">

Before you can install Teleport in your Kubernetes cluster, you will need to
create a secret that contains your Teleport license information.

(!docs/pages/includes/enterprise/obtainlicense.mdx!)

Create a secret from your license file. Teleport will automatically discover
this secret as long as your file is named `license.pem`.

```code
$ kubectl -n teleport create secret generic license --from-file=license.pem
```

</ScopedBlock>

<Admonition type="note" title="External proxy port">
Note that although the `proxy_service` listens on port 3080 inside the pod,
the default `LoadBalancer` service configured by the chart will always listen
externally on port 443 (which is redirected internally to port 3080).

Due to this, your `proxy_service.public_addr` should always end in `:443`:

```yaml
proxy_service:
  web_listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3080
  public_addr: custom.example.com:443
```

</Admonition>

You can now deploy Teleport in your cluster with the command:

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss"]} label="Open Source">

```code
$ helm install teleport teleport/teleport-cluster \
  --namespace teleport \
  --values my-values.yaml
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem scope={["enterprise"]} label="Enterprise">

```code
$ helm install teleport teleport/teleport-cluster \
  --namespace teleport \
  --set enterprise=true \
  --values my-values.yaml
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once the chart is installed, you can use `kubectl` commands to view the deployment:

```code
$ kubectl --namespace teleport get all

NAME                                 READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/teleport-auth-57989d4cbd-rtrzn   1/1     Running   0          22h
pod/teleport-proxy-c6bf55cfc-w96d2   1/1     Running   0          22h
pod/teleport-proxy-c6bf55cfc-z256w   1/1     Running   0          22h

NAME                        TYPE           CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)                                                                     AGE
service/teleport            LoadBalancer   10.40.11.180   34.138.177.11   443:30258/TCP,3023:31802/TCP,3026:32182/TCP,3024:30101/TCP,3036:30302/TCP   22h
service/teleport-auth       ClusterIP      10.40.8.251    <none>          3025/TCP,3026/TCP                                                           22h
service/teleport-auth-v11   ClusterIP      None           <none>          <none>                                                                      22h
service/teleport-auth-v12   ClusterIP      None           <none>          <none>                                                                      22h

NAME                             READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/teleport-auth    1/1     1            1           22h
deployment.apps/teleport-proxy   2/2     2            2           22h

NAME                                       DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/teleport-auth-57989d4cbd   1         1         1       22h
replicaset.apps/teleport-proxy-c6bf55cfc   2         2         2       22h
```

## Step 4/4. Create a Teleport user (optional)

If you're not migrating an existing Teleport cluster, you'll need to create a
user to be able to log into Teleport. This needs to be done on the Teleport
auth server, so we can run the command using `kubectl`:

```code
$ kubectl --namespace teleport exec deployment/teleport-auth -- tctl users add test --roles=access,editor

User "test" has been created but requires a password. Share this URL with the user to complete user setup, link is valid for 1h:
https://teleport.example.com:443/web/invite/91cfbd08bc89122275006e48b516cc68

NOTE: Make sure teleport.example.com:443 points at a Teleport proxy that users can access.
```

<Admonition type="note">
If you didn't set up DNS for your hostname earlier, remember to replace
`teleport.example.com` with the external IP or hostname of the Kubernetes load
balancer.

(!docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/kubernetes-externaladdress.mdx!)

You should modify your command accordingly and replace `teleport.example.com` with
either the IP or hostname depending on which you have available. You may need
to accept insecure warnings in your browser to view the page successfully.
</Admonition>

<Admonition type="warning">
Using a Kubernetes-issued load balancer IP or hostname is OK for testing but is
not viable when running a production Teleport cluster as the Subject Alternative
Name on any public-facing certificate will be expected to match the cluster's
configured public address (specified using `public_addr` in your configuration)

You must configure DNS properly using the methods described above for production workloads.
</Admonition>

Load the user creation link to create a password and set up 2-factor
authentication for the Teleport user via the web UI.

## Uninstalling the Helm chart

To uninstall the `teleport-cluster` chart, use `helm uninstall <release-name>`. For example:

```code
$ helm --namespace teleport uninstall teleport
```

<Admonition type="note">
To change `chartMode`, you must first uninstall the existing chart and then
install a new version with the appropriate values.
</Admonition>

## Next steps

Now that you have deployed a Teleport cluster, read the [Manage
Access](../../access-controls/introduction.mdx) section to get started enrolling
users and setting up RBAC.

To see all of the options you can set in the values file for the
`teleport-cluster` Helm chart, consult our [reference
guide](../../reference/helm-reference/teleport-cluster.mdx).

Commit message:

Add reviewer and requester roles. (#28076)
Reviewer and requester roles have been added to allow for easy defaults for
reviewing and requesting applications and user groups for the Okta service.

docs/pages/deploy-a-cluster/helm-deployments/custom.mdx, after:

---
title: Running Teleport with a Custom Configuration using Helm
description: Install and configure a Teleport cluster with a custom configuration using Helm
---

In this guide, we'll explain how to set up a Teleport cluster in Kubernetes
with custom [`teleport.yaml`](../../reference/config.mdx) config file elements
using Teleport Helm charts.

(!docs/pages/includes/cloud/call-to-action.mdx!)

This setup can be useful when you already have an existing Teleport cluster and would
like to start running it in Kubernetes, or when migrating your setup from a legacy
version of the Helm charts.

If you are already running Teleport on another platform, you can use your
existing Teleport deployment to access your Kubernetes cluster. [Follow our
guide](../../kubernetes-access/getting-started.mdx) to connect your Kubernetes
cluster to Teleport.

## Prerequisites

<Admonition type="warning">
Those instructions are both for v12+ Teleport and the v12+ `teleport-cluster` chart.
If you are running an older Teleport version, use the version selector at the top
of this page to choose the correct version.
</Admonition>

(!docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/teleport-cluster-prereqs.mdx!)

## Step 1/4. Install Helm

(!docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/teleport-cluster-install.mdx!)

## Step 2/4. Add the Teleport Helm chart repository

(!docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/helm-repo-add.mdx!)

## Step 3/4. Setting up a Teleport cluster with Helm using a custom config

`teleport-cluster` deploys two sets of pods: one for the Proxy Service and one for the Auth Service. You can provide two configurations, one for each pod type.

- Any values set under the `proxy` section of your chart values will be applied to the Proxy Service pods
  only. You can provide custom YAML under `proxy.teleportConfig` to override elements of the default Teleport
  Proxy Service configuration with your own.
- Any values set under the `auth` section of your chart values will be applied to the Auth Service pods only.
  You can provide custom YAML under `auth.teleportConfig` to override elements of the default Teleport Auth
  Service configuration with your own.

Any YAML you provide under a `teleportConfig` section will be merged with the chart's default YAML configuration,
with your overrides taking precedence. This allows you to override only the exact behaviour that you need, while keeping
the Teleport-recommended chart defaults for everything else.

Also, note that many useful Teleport features can already be configured using chart values rather than custom YAML.
Setting `publicAddr` is the same as setting `proxy.teleportConfig.proxy_service.public_addr`, for example.

<Admonition type="warning">
When using `scratch` or `standalone` mode, you **must** use highly-available
storage (e.g. etcd, DynamoDB, or Firestore) for multiple replicas to be supported.

[Information on supported Teleport storage backends](../../reference/backends.mdx)

Manually configuring NFS-based storage or `ReadWriteMany` volume claims is **NOT**
supported for an HA deployment and will result in errors.
</Admonition>

Write the following `my-values.yaml` file, and adapt the teleport configuration as needed.
You can find all possible configuration fields in the [Teleport Config Reference](../../reference/config.mdx).

```yaml
chartMode: standalone
clusterName: teleport.example.com

auth:
  teleportConfig:
    # put any teleport.yaml auth configuration overrides here
    teleport:
      log:
        output: stderr
        severity: DEBUG

    auth_service:
      enabled: true
      web_idle_timeout: 1h
      authentication:
        locking_mode: best_effort

proxy:
  teleportConfig:
    # put any teleport.yaml proxy configuration overrides here
    teleport:
      log:
        output: stderr
        severity: DEBUG

    proxy_service:
      https_keypairs_reload_interval: 12h
      # optionally override the public addresses for the cluster
      # public_addr: custom.example.com:443
      # tunnel_public_addr: custom.example.com:3024

# If you are running Kubernetes 1.23 or above, disable PodSecurityPolicies
podSecurityPolicy:
  enabled: false

# OPTIONAL - when using highly-available storage for both backend AND session recordings
# you can disable disk persistence and replicate auth pods.
#
# persistence:
#   enabled: false
# highAvailability:
#   replicaCount: 2
```

You can override the externally-facing name of your cluster using the `publicAddr` value in your
Helm configuration, or by setting `proxy.teleportConfig.proxy_service.public_addr`. In this
example, however, our `publicAddr` is automatically set to `teleport.example.com:443` based on the
configured `clusterName`.

Create the namespace containing the Teleport-related resources and configure the
`PodSecurityAdmission`:

```code
$ kubectl create namespace teleport
namespace/teleport created
$ kubectl label namespace teleport 'pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce=baseline'
namespace/teleport labeled
```

<ScopedBlock scope="enterprise">

Before you can install Teleport in your Kubernetes cluster, you will need to
create a secret that contains your Teleport license information.

(!docs/pages/includes/enterprise/obtainlicense.mdx!)

Create a secret from your license file. Teleport will automatically discover
this secret as long as your file is named `license.pem`.

```code
$ kubectl -n teleport create secret generic license --from-file=license.pem
```

</ScopedBlock>

<Admonition type="note" title="External proxy port">
Note that although the `proxy_service` listens on port 3080 inside the pod,
the default `LoadBalancer` service configured by the chart will always listen
externally on port 443 (which is redirected internally to port 3080).

Due to this, your `proxy_service.public_addr` should always end in `:443`:

```yaml
proxy_service:
  web_listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3080
  public_addr: custom.example.com:443
```

</Admonition>

You can now deploy Teleport in your cluster with the command:

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss"]} label="Open Source">

```code
$ helm install teleport teleport/teleport-cluster \
  --namespace teleport \
  --values my-values.yaml
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem scope={["enterprise"]} label="Enterprise">

```code
$ helm install teleport teleport/teleport-cluster \
  --namespace teleport \
  --set enterprise=true \
  --values my-values.yaml
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once the chart is installed, you can use `kubectl` commands to view the deployment:

```code
$ kubectl --namespace teleport get all

NAME                                 READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/teleport-auth-57989d4cbd-rtrzn   1/1     Running   0          22h
pod/teleport-proxy-c6bf55cfc-w96d2   1/1     Running   0          22h
pod/teleport-proxy-c6bf55cfc-z256w   1/1     Running   0          22h

NAME                        TYPE           CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)                                                                     AGE
service/teleport            LoadBalancer   10.40.11.180   34.138.177.11   443:30258/TCP,3023:31802/TCP,3026:32182/TCP,3024:30101/TCP,3036:30302/TCP   22h
service/teleport-auth       ClusterIP      10.40.8.251    <none>          3025/TCP,3026/TCP                                                           22h
service/teleport-auth-v11   ClusterIP      None           <none>          <none>                                                                      22h
service/teleport-auth-v12   ClusterIP      None           <none>          <none>                                                                      22h

NAME                             READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/teleport-auth    1/1     1            1           22h
deployment.apps/teleport-proxy   2/2     2            2           22h

NAME                                       DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/teleport-auth-57989d4cbd   1         1         1       22h
replicaset.apps/teleport-proxy-c6bf55cfc   2         2         2       22h
```

## Step 4/4. Create a Teleport user (optional)

If you're not migrating an existing Teleport cluster, you'll need to create a
user to be able to log into Teleport. This needs to be done on the Teleport
auth server, so we can run the command using `kubectl`:

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss"]}>
```code
$ kubectl --namespace teleport exec deployment/teleport-auth -- tctl users add test --roles=access,editor

User "test" has been created but requires a password. Share this URL with the user to complete user setup, link is valid for 1h:
https://teleport.example.com:443/web/invite/91cfbd08bc89122275006e48b516cc68

NOTE: Make sure teleport.example.com:443 points at a Teleport proxy that users can access.
```
</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["enterprise", "cloud"]}>
```code
$ kubectl --namespace teleport exec deployment/teleport-auth -- tctl users add test --roles=access,editor,reviewer

User "test" has been created but requires a password. Share this URL with the user to complete user setup, link is valid for 1h:
https://teleport.example.com:443/web/invite/91cfbd08bc89122275006e48b516cc68

NOTE: Make sure teleport.example.com:443 points at a Teleport proxy that users can access.
```
</ScopedBlock>

<Admonition type="note">
If you didn't set up DNS for your hostname earlier, remember to replace
`teleport.example.com` with the external IP or hostname of the Kubernetes load
balancer.

(!docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/kubernetes-externaladdress.mdx!)

You should modify your command accordingly and replace `teleport.example.com` with
either the IP or hostname depending on which you have available. You may need
to accept insecure warnings in your browser to view the page successfully.
</Admonition>

<Admonition type="warning">
Using a Kubernetes-issued load balancer IP or hostname is OK for testing but is
not viable when running a production Teleport cluster as the Subject Alternative
Name on any public-facing certificate will be expected to match the cluster's
configured public address (specified using `public_addr` in your configuration)

You must configure DNS properly using the methods described above for production workloads.
</Admonition>

Load the user creation link to create a password and set up 2-factor
authentication for the Teleport user via the web UI.

## Uninstalling the Helm chart

To uninstall the `teleport-cluster` chart, use `helm uninstall <release-name>`. For example:

```code
$ helm --namespace teleport uninstall teleport
```

<Admonition type="note">
To change `chartMode`, you must first uninstall the existing chart and then
install a new version with the appropriate values.
</Admonition>

## Next steps

Now that you have deployed a Teleport cluster, read the [Manage
Access](../../access-controls/introduction.mdx) section to get started enrolling
users and setting up RBAC.

To see all of the options you can set in the values file for the
`teleport-cluster` Helm chart, consult our [reference
guide](../../reference/helm-reference/teleport-cluster.mdx).
