docs/pages/enroll-resources/server-access/guides/ansible.mdx, before:

---
title: Ansible
description: Using Teleport with Ansible
---

Ansible uses the OpenSSH client by default. Teleport supports SSH protocol and
works as SSH jumphost.

In this guide we will configure OpenSSH client to work with Teleport Proxy
and run a sample ansible playbook.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- `ssh` openssh tool
- `ansible` >= (=ansible.min_version=)
- Optional tool `jq` to process `JSON` output.
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/3. Login and configure SSH

Log into Teleport with `tsh`:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=example.com
```

Generate `openssh` configuration using `tsh config` shortcut:

```code
$ tsh config > ssh.cfg
```

<Admonition type="tip">
You can edit matching patterns used in `ssh.cfg` if something
is not working out of the box.
</Admonition>

## Step 2/3. Configure Ansible

Create a folder `ansible` where we will collect all generated files:

```code
$ mkdir -p ansible
$ cd ansible
```

Create a file `ansible.cfg`:

```
[defaults]
host_key_checking = True
inventory=./hosts
remote_tmp=/tmp

[ssh_connection]
scp_if_ssh = True
ssh_args = -F ./ssh.cfg
```

You can create an inventory file `hosts` manually or use a script below to generate it from your environment. Set your
cluster name (e.g. `teleport.example.com` or in the form `mytenant.teleport.sh` for Teleport Enterprise Cloud)
and this script will generate the host names to match the `openssh` configuration:

```code
$ tsh ls --format=json | jq '.[].spec.hostname + ".<Var name="teleport.example.com" />"' > hosts
```

## Step 3/3. Run a playbook

Finally, let's create a simple ansible playbook `playbook.yaml`.

The playbook below runs `hostname` on all hosts. Make sure to set the `remote_user` parameter
to a valid SSH username that works with the target host and is allowed by Teleport:

```yaml
- hosts: all
  remote_user: ubuntu
  tasks:
    - name: "hostname"
      command: "hostname"
```

From the folder `ansible`, run the ansible playbook:

```code
$ ansible-playbook playbook.yaml 

# PLAY [all] *****************************************************************************************************************************************
# TASK [Gathering Facts] *****************************************************************************************************************************
#
# ok: [terminal]
#
# TASK [hostname] ************************************************************************************************************************************
# changed: [terminal]
#
# PLAY RECAP *****************************************************************************************************************************************
# terminal                   : ok=2    changed=1    unreachable=0    failed=0    skipped=0    rescued=0    ignored=0
```

You are all set. You are now using short-lived SSH certificates and Teleport can now record
all ansible commands in the audit log.

## Troubleshooting

In case if ansible can not connect, you may see error like this one:

```txt
example.host | UNREACHABLE! => {
    "changed": false,
    "msg": "Failed to connect to the host via ssh: ssh: Could not resolve hostname example.host: Name or service not known",
    "unreachable": true
}
```

You can examine and tweak patterns matching the inventory hosts in `ssh.cfg`.

Try the SSH connection using `ssh.cfg` with verbose mode to inspect the error:

```code
$ ssh -vvv -F ./ssh.cfg root@example.host
```

If `ssh` works, try running the playbook with verbose mode on:

```code
$ ansible-playbook -vvvv playbook.yaml
```

Commit message:

[v16] docs: update ansible server access steps (#44824)
* docs: update ansible server access steps

* docs: cp example change for ansible

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

* docs: fix spelling in comments for ansible instructions

---------

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/enroll-resources/server-access/guides/ansible.mdx, after:

---
title: Ansible
description: Using Teleport with Ansible
---

Ansible uses the OpenSSH client by default. Teleport supports SSH protocol and
works as SSH jumphost.

In this guide we will configure OpenSSH client to work with Teleport Proxy
and run a sample ansible playbook.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- `ssh` openssh tool
- `ansible` >= (=ansible.min_version=)
- Optional tool `jq` to process `JSON` output.
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/3. Login and configure SSH

Log into Teleport with `tsh`:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=example.com
```

Generate `openssh` configuration using `tsh config` shortcut:

```code
$ tsh config > ssh.cfg
```

<Admonition type="tip">
You can edit matching patterns used in `ssh.cfg` if something
is not working out of the box.
</Admonition>

## Step 2/3. Configure Ansible

Create a folder `ansible` where we will collect all generated files:

```code
$ mkdir -p ansible
# Copy the openssh configuration from the previous step to the ansible dir
$ cp ssh.cfg ansible/
$ cd ansible
```

Create a file `ansible.cfg`:

```
[defaults]
host_key_checking = True
inventory=./hosts
remote_tmp=/tmp

[ssh_connection]
scp_if_ssh = True
ssh_args = -F ./ssh.cfg
```

You can create an inventory file `hosts` manually or use a script below to generate it from your environment. Set your
cluster name (e.g. `teleport.example.com` or in the form `mytenant.teleport.sh` for Teleport Enterprise Cloud)
and this script will generate the host names to match the `openssh` configuration:

```code
$ tsh ls --format=json | jq '.[].spec.hostname + ".<Var name="teleport.example.com" />"' > hosts
```

## Step 3/3. Run a playbook

Finally, let's create a simple ansible playbook `playbook.yaml`.

The playbook below runs `hostname` on all hosts. Make sure to set the `remote_user` parameter
to a valid SSH username that works with the target host and is allowed by Teleport:

```yaml
- hosts: all
  remote_user: ubuntu
  tasks:
    - name: "hostname"
      command: "hostname"
```

From the folder `ansible`, run the ansible playbook:

```code
$ ansible-playbook playbook.yaml 

# PLAY [all] *****************************************************************************************************************************************
# TASK [Gathering Facts] *****************************************************************************************************************************
#
# ok: [terminal]
#
# TASK [hostname] ************************************************************************************************************************************
# changed: [terminal]
#
# PLAY RECAP *****************************************************************************************************************************************
# terminal                   : ok=2    changed=1    unreachable=0    failed=0    skipped=0    rescued=0    ignored=0
```

You are all set. You are now using short-lived SSH certificates and Teleport can now record
all ansible commands in the audit log.

## Troubleshooting

In case if ansible can not connect, you may see error like this one:

```txt
example.host | UNREACHABLE! => {
    "changed": false,
    "msg": "Failed to connect to the host via ssh: ssh: Could not resolve hostname example.host: Name or service not known",
    "unreachable": true
}
```

You can examine and tweak patterns matching the inventory hosts in `ssh.cfg`.

Try the SSH connection using `ssh.cfg` with verbose mode to inspect the error:

```code
$ ssh -vvv -F ./ssh.cfg root@example.host
```

If `ssh` works, try running the playbook with verbose mode on:

```code
$ ansible-playbook -vvvv playbook.yaml
```
