docs/pages/admin-guides/deploy-a-cluster/access-graph/self-hosted.mdx, before:

---
title: Run Teleport Policy on Self-Hosted Clusters
description: Describes how to deploy Access Graph on self-hosted clusters.
---

Teleport Policy's Access Graph with a self-hosted Teleport cluster requires setting up 
Access Graph, a dedicated service which uses PostgreSQL as its backing storage and communicates 
with Auth Service and Proxy Service to collect information about resources and access.

This guide will help you set up the service and enable Access Graph in your Teleport cluster.

## Prerequisites

- A running Teleport Enterprise cluster v14.3.6 or later.
- An updated `license.pem` with Teleport Policy enabled.
- Docker version v(=docker.version=) or later.
- A PostgreSQL database server v14 or later.
  - Access Graph needs a dedicated [database](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-createdatabase.html) to store its data.
    The user that Access Graph connects to the database with needs to be the owner of this database, or have similar broad permissions:
    at least the `CREATE TABLE` privilege on the `public` schema, and the `CREATE SCHEMA` privilege.
  - Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL is supported.
- A TLS certificate for the Access Graph service
  - The TLS certificate must be issued for "server authentication" key usage,
    and must list the IP or DNS name of the Access Graph service in an X.509 v3 `subjectAltName` extension.
  - Starting from version 1.20.4 of the Access Graph service, the container runs as a non-root user by default.
    Make sure the certificate files are readable by the user running the container. You can set correct permissions with the following command:
    ```code
    $ sudo chown 65532 /etc/access_graph/tls.key
    ```
- The node running the Access Graph service must be reachable from Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service.

<Admonition type="warning">
    The deployment with Docker is suitable for testing and development purposes. For production deployments,
    consider using the Access Graph Helm chart to deploy this service on Kubernetes.
    Refer to [Helm chart for Access Graph](self-hosted-helm.mdx) for instructions.
</Admonition>

## Step 1/3. Set up Access Graph

You will need a copy of your Teleport cluster's host certificate authority (CA) on the machine that hosts the Access Graph service.
The service requires incoming connections to be authenticated via host certificates that the host CA issues to the Auth Service and Proxy Service.

The host CA can be retrieved and saved into a file in one of the following ways:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Via curl">
```code
$ sudo mkdir /etc/access_graph
$ curl -s 'https://<Var name="teleport.example.com" />/webapi/auth/export?type=tls-host' | sudo tee /etc/access_graph/teleport_host_ca.pem
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Via tctl">
```code
$ sudo mkdir /etc/access_graph
$ tsh login --proxy=<Var name="teleport.example.com" />
$ tctl get cert_authorities --format=json \
    | jq -r '.[] | select(.spec.type == "host") | .spec.active_keys.tls[].cert' \
    | base64 -d | sudo tee /etc/access_graph/teleport_host_ca.pem
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Then, on the same machine, create a configuration file for the Access Graph service, similar to this:

```yaml
backend:
  postgres:
    # This uses the PostgreSQL connection URI format, see https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNSTRING-URIS
    # A stricter `sslmode` value is strongly recommended,
    # e.g. `sslmode=verify-full&sslrootcert=/etc/access_graph/my_postgres_ca.crt`.
    # For a full reference on possible parameters see https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PARAMKEYWORDS
    connection: postgres://access_graph_user:my_password@db.example.com:5432/access_graph_db?sslmode=require

    # When running on Amazon RDS, IAM auth via credentials set in the environment can be used as follows:
    # iam:
    #   aws_region: us-west-2

# IP address (optional) and port for the Access Graph service to listen to.
# This is the default value. This key can be omitted to listen on port 50051 on all interfaces.
address: ":50051"

tls:
  # File paths of PEM-encoded TLS certificate and private key for the Access Graph server.
  cert: /etc/access_graph/tls.crt
  key: /etc/access_graph/tls.key

# This lists the file paths for host CAs of Teleport clusters that are allowed to register with this Access Graph service.
# Several paths can be included to allow several Teleport clusters to connect to the Access Graph service.
registration_cas:
  - /etc/access_graph/teleport_host_ca.pem # A full path to the file containing the Teleport cluster's host CA certificate.
```

Finally, start the Access Graph service using Docker as follows:

```console
$ docker run -p 50051:50051 -v <path-to-config>:/app/config.yaml -v /etc/access_graph:/etc/access_graph public.ecr.aws/gravitational/access-graph:(=access_graph.version=)
```

## Step 2/3. Update the Teleport Auth Service configuration

In the YAML config for the Auth Service, add a new top-level section for Access Graph configuration.

```yaml
access_graph:
  enabled: true
  # host:port where the Access Graph service is listening
  endpoint: access-graph.example.com:50051
  # Specify a trusted CA we expect the Access Graph server certificate to be signed by.
  # If not specified, the system trust store will be used.
  ca: /etc/access_graph_ca.pem
```

Then, restart Auth Service instances, followed by Proxy Service instances.

## Step 3/3. View the Access Graph in the Web UI

You can find Access Graph in the "Access Management" tab in the Web UI.
![Access Management menu item](../../../../img/access-graph/menu-item.png)

To access the interface, your user must have a role that allows `list` and `read` verbs on the `access_graph` resource, e.g.:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v7
metadata:
  name: my-role
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources:
      - access_graph
      verbs:
      - list
      - read
```

The preset `editor` role has the required permissions by default.

Commit message:

docs: new product messaging for marketing launch  (#52319)
* initial draft for marketing changes

* product name changes from marketing

* correcting duplications

* final changes post-marketing review

* review changes

* Update docs/pages/admin-guides/infrastructure-as-code/managing-resources/access-list.mdx

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

* revisions

* cleanup and reverting use-cases of 'Zero Trust Access x'

* Trust Access corrections

* removing 2 images already in master

* post-feedback changes

* Update docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/teleport-policy.mdx

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

* post G2 review feedback

* Lint helm appeasement

---------

Co-authored-by: Zac Bergquist <zac.bergquist@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/admin-guides/deploy-a-cluster/access-graph/self-hosted.mdx, after:

---
title: Run Teleport Identity Security on Self-Hosted Clusters
description: Describes how to deploy Access Graph on self-hosted clusters.
---

Identity Security with Access Graph on a self-hosted Teleport cluster requires setting up 
Access Graph, a dedicated service which uses PostgreSQL as its backing storage and communicates 
with Auth Service and Proxy Service to collect information about resources and access.

This guide will help you set up the service and enable Access Graph in your Teleport cluster.

## Prerequisites

- A running Teleport Enterprise cluster v14.3.6 or later.
- An updated `license.pem` with Identity Security enabled.
- Docker version v(=docker.version=) or later.
- A PostgreSQL database server v14 or later.
  - Access Graph needs a dedicated [database](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-createdatabase.html) to store its data.
    The user that Access Graph connects to the database with needs to be the owner of this database, or have similar broad permissions:
    at least the `CREATE TABLE` privilege on the `public` schema, and the `CREATE SCHEMA` privilege.
  - Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL is supported.
- A TLS certificate for the Access Graph service
  - The TLS certificate must be issued for "server authentication" key usage,
    and must list the IP or DNS name of the Access Graph service in an X.509 v3 `subjectAltName` extension.
  - Starting from version 1.20.4 of the Access Graph service, the container runs as a non-root user by default.
    Make sure the certificate files are readable by the user running the container. You can set correct permissions with the following command:
    ```code
    $ sudo chown 65532 /etc/access_graph/tls.key
    ```
- The node running the Access Graph service must be reachable from Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service.

<Admonition type="warning">
    The deployment with Docker is suitable for testing and development purposes. For production deployments,
    consider using the Access Graph Helm chart to deploy this service on Kubernetes.
    Refer to [Helm chart for Access Graph](self-hosted-helm.mdx) for instructions.
</Admonition>

## Step 1/3. Set up Access Graph

You will need a copy of your Teleport cluster's host certificate authority (CA) on the machine that hosts the Access Graph service.
The service requires incoming connections to be authenticated via host certificates that the host CA issues to the Auth Service and Proxy Service.

The host CA can be retrieved and saved into a file in one of the following ways:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Via curl">
```code
$ sudo mkdir /etc/access_graph
$ curl -s 'https://<Var name="teleport.example.com" />/webapi/auth/export?type=tls-host' | sudo tee /etc/access_graph/teleport_host_ca.pem
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Via tctl">
```code
$ sudo mkdir /etc/access_graph
$ tsh login --proxy=<Var name="teleport.example.com" />
$ tctl get cert_authorities --format=json \
    | jq -r '.[] | select(.spec.type == "host") | .spec.active_keys.tls[].cert' \
    | base64 -d | sudo tee /etc/access_graph/teleport_host_ca.pem
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Then, on the same machine, create a configuration file for the Access Graph service, similar to this:

```yaml
backend:
  postgres:
    # This uses the PostgreSQL connection URI format, see https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNSTRING-URIS
    # A stricter `sslmode` value is strongly recommended,
    # e.g. `sslmode=verify-full&sslrootcert=/etc/access_graph/my_postgres_ca.crt`.
    # For a full reference on possible parameters see https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-PARAMKEYWORDS
    connection: postgres://access_graph_user:my_password@db.example.com:5432/access_graph_db?sslmode=require

    # When running on Amazon RDS, IAM auth via credentials set in the environment can be used as follows:
    # iam:
    #   aws_region: us-west-2

# IP address (optional) and port for the Access Graph service to listen to.
# This is the default value. This key can be omitted to listen on port 50051 on all interfaces.
address: ":50051"

tls:
  # File paths of PEM-encoded TLS certificate and private key for the Access Graph server.
  cert: /etc/access_graph/tls.crt
  key: /etc/access_graph/tls.key

# This lists the file paths for host CAs of Teleport clusters that are allowed to register with this Access Graph service.
# Several paths can be included to allow several Teleport clusters to connect to the Access Graph service.
registration_cas:
  - /etc/access_graph/teleport_host_ca.pem # A full path to the file containing the Teleport cluster's host CA certificate.
```

Finally, start the Access Graph service using Docker as follows:

```console
$ docker run -p 50051:50051 -v <path-to-config>:/app/config.yaml -v /etc/access_graph:/etc/access_graph public.ecr.aws/gravitational/access-graph:(=access_graph.version=)
```

## Step 2/3. Update the Teleport Auth Service configuration

In the YAML config for the Auth Service, add a new top-level section for Access Graph configuration.

```yaml
access_graph:
  enabled: true
  # host:port where the Access Graph service is listening
  endpoint: access-graph.example.com:50051
  # Specify a trusted CA we expect the Access Graph server certificate to be signed by.
  # If not specified, the system trust store will be used.
  ca: /etc/access_graph_ca.pem
```

Then, restart Auth Service instances, followed by Proxy Service instances.

## Step 3/3. View the Access Graph in the Web UI

You can find Access Graph in the "Access Management" tab in the Web UI.
![Access Management menu item](../../../../img/access-graph/menu-item.png)

To access the interface, your user must have a role that allows `list` and `read` verbs on the `access_graph` resource, e.g.:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v7
metadata:
  name: my-role
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources:
      - access_graph
      verbs:
      - list
      - read
```

The preset `editor` role has the required permissions by default.
