docs/pages/management/dynamic-resources/teleport-operator.mdx, before:

---
title: Teleport Kubernetes Operator
description: Easily manage Teleport resources from Kubernetes
---

The Teleport Kubernetes Operator provides a way for Kubernetes users to manage some Teleport resources through
Kubernetes, following [the Operator Pattern](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/).

The Teleport Kubernetes Operator is deployed alongside its custom resource definitions. Once deployed, users
can use a Kubernetes client like `kubectl` or their existing CI/CD Kubernetes pipelines to create Teleport
custom resources. The Teleport Kubernetes Operator watches for those resources and does API calls to Teleport to
reach the desired state.  

Since Teleport version 15, the operator can be deployed both:
- alongside self-hosted Teleport clusters deployed with the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart.
  This deployment method differs from version 14. In version 15 and above, the operator
  is no longer deployed as a sidecar. An operator outage cannot affect Teleport's availability.
- against a remote Teleport instance (such as Teleport Cloud or deployed with Terraform)

The operator supports multiple replicas within a single cluster by electing a
leader with a Kubernetes lease.

<Admonition type="warning">
Only one operator deployment should run against a Teleport cluster. Else, different operators
could cause instability and non-deterministic behaviour.
</Admonition>

Currently supported Teleport resources are:
- users (`TeleportUser`)
- roles
  - `TeleportRole` creates role v5
  - `TeleportRoleV6` creates role v6
  - `TeleportRoleV7` creates role v7
- OIDC connectors (`TeleportOIDCConnector`)
- SAML connectors (`TeleportSAMLConnector`)
- GitHub connectors (`TeleportGithubConnector`)
- provision tokens (`TeleportProvisionToken`)
- Login Rules (`TeleportLoginRules`)

### Setting up the operator

If you are self-hosting Teleport using the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart,
follow [the guide for Helm-deployed clusters](./teleport-operator-helm.mdx).

If you are hosting Teleport out of Kubernetes (Teleport Cloud, Terraform, ...),
follow [the standalone operator guide](./teleport-operator-standalone.mdx).

### Troubleshooting

(!docs/pages/includes/diagnostics/kubernetes-operator-troubleshooting.mdx!)

## Next steps

- Follow the ["Managing users and roles with IaC" guide](./user-and-role.mdx).
- Check out [access controls documentation](../../access-controls/introduction.mdx).

Commit message:

[v15] Document operator annotations (#44769)
* Document operator annotations

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Paul Gottschling <paul.gottschling@goteleport.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Paul Gottschling <paul.gottschling@goteleport.com>

docs/pages/management/dynamic-resources/teleport-operator.mdx, after:

---
title: Teleport Kubernetes Operator
description: Easily manage Teleport resources from Kubernetes
---

The Teleport Kubernetes Operator provides a way for Kubernetes users to manage some Teleport resources through
Kubernetes, following [the Operator Pattern](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/).

The Teleport Kubernetes Operator is deployed alongside its custom resource definitions. Once deployed, users
can use a Kubernetes client like `kubectl` or their existing CI/CD Kubernetes pipelines to create Teleport
custom resources. The Teleport Kubernetes Operator watches for those resources and does API calls to Teleport to
reach the desired state.  

Since Teleport version 15, the operator can be deployed both:
- alongside self-hosted Teleport clusters deployed with the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart.
  This deployment method differs from version 14. In version 15 and above, the operator
  is no longer deployed as a sidecar. An operator outage cannot affect Teleport's availability.
- against a remote Teleport instance (such as Teleport Cloud or deployed with Terraform)

The operator supports multiple replicas within a single cluster by electing a
leader with a Kubernetes lease.

<Admonition type="warning">
Only one operator deployment should run against a Teleport cluster. Else, different operators
could cause instability and non-deterministic behaviour.
</Admonition>

Currently supported Teleport resources are:
- users (`TeleportUser`)
- roles
  - `TeleportRole` creates role v5
  - `TeleportRoleV6` creates role v6
  - `TeleportRoleV7` creates role v7
- OIDC connectors (`TeleportOIDCConnector`)
- SAML connectors (`TeleportSAMLConnector`)
- GitHub connectors (`TeleportGithubConnector`)
- provision tokens (`TeleportProvisionToken`)
- Login Rules (`TeleportLoginRules`)

### Setting up the operator

If you are self-hosting Teleport using the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart,
follow [the guide for Helm-deployed clusters](./teleport-operator-helm.mdx).

If you are hosting Teleport out of Kubernetes (Teleport Cloud, Terraform, ...),
follow [the standalone operator guide](./teleport-operator-standalone.mdx).

### Control reconciliation with annotations

The operator supports two annotations on CRs:

#### `teleport.dev/keep`

This annotation instructs the operator to keep the Teleport resource if the CR is deleted.
This is useful if you want to migrate between two resource versions.

For example, to migrate from `TeleportRoleV6` to `TeleportRoleV7`:
- Annotate the existing `TeleportRoleV6` resource with `teleport.dev/keep: "true"`
- Delete the `TeleportRoleV6` CR, the operator won't delete the associated Teleport role
- Create a `TeleportRoleV7` CR with the same name, the operator will find the existing v6 role and adopt it.

Possible values are `"true"` or `"false"` (those are strings, as Booleans are not valid label values in Kubernetes).

#### `teleport.dev/ignore`

This annotation instructs the operator to ignore the CR when reconciling.
This means the resource will not be created, updated, or deleted in Teleport.

This also means the operator will not remove its finalizer if you try to delete an ignored CR.
The finalizer will stay and the deletion be blocked until you patch the resource to remove the
finalizer or remove the ignore annotation.

Possible values are `"true"` or `"false"` (those are strings, as Booleans are not valid label values in Kubernetes).

### Troubleshooting

(!docs/pages/includes/diagnostics/kubernetes-operator-troubleshooting.mdx!)

## Next steps

- Follow the ["Managing users and roles with IaC" guide](./user-and-role.mdx).
- Check out [access controls documentation](../../access-controls/introduction.mdx).
